<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Les Fleurs du Mal 1861</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="les-fleurs-du-mal-1861" epub:type="volume">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Les Fleurs du Mal 1861</h2>
			<article id="to-the-reader" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="title">To the Reader</h4>
				<p>
					<span>Folly and error, avarice and vice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Employ our souls and waste our bodies’ force.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As mangey beggars incubate their lice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We nourish our innocuous remorse.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Our sins are stubborn, craven our repentance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For our weak vows we ask excessive prices.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trusting our tears will wash away the sentence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We sneak off where the muddy road entices.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cradled in evil, that Thrice-Great Magician,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Devil, rocks our souls, that can’t resist;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rich metal of our own volition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is vaporised by that sage alchemist.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Devil pulls the strings by which we’ve worked:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By all revolting objects lured, we slink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hellwards; each day down one more step we’re jerked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Feeling no horror, through the shades that stink.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Just as a lustful pauper bites and kisses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scarred and shrivelled breast of an old whore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We steal, along the roadside, furtive blisses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Squeezing them, like stale oranges, for more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Packed tight, like hives of maggots, thickly seething,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within our brains a host of demons surges.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep down into our lungs at every breathing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death flows, an unseen river, moaning dirges.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If rape or arson, poison, or the knife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has wove no pleasing patterns in the stuff</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of this drab canvas we accept as life⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is because we are not bold enough!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Amongst the jackals, leopards, mongrels, apes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Snakes, scorpions, vultures, that with hellish din,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Squeal, roar, writhe, gambol, crawl, with monstrous shapes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In each man’s foul menagerie of sin⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There’s one more damned than all. He never gambols,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor crawls, nor roars, but, from the rest withdrawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gladly of this whole earth would make a shambles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swallow up existence with a yawn …</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Boredom! He smokes his hookah, while he dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of gibbets, weeping tears he cannot smother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know this dainty monster, too, it seems⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hypocrite reader!⁠—You!⁠—My twin!⁠—My brother!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
