<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Conclusion</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="conclusion" epub:type="volume">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Conclusion</h2>
			<article id="the-unforeseen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="title">The Unforeseen</h4>
				<p>
					<span>Harpagon watched his father slowly dying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And musing on his white lips as they shrunk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said, "There is lumber in the outhouse lying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seems: old boards and junk."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Celimene cooed, and said, "How good I am</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, naturally, God made my looks excel"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Her callous heart, thrice-smoked like salted ham,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will burn in endless Hell!)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A smoky scribbler, to himself a beacon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Says to the wretch whom he has plunged in shade—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Where's the Creator you so loved to speak on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Saviour you portrayed?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But best of all I know a certain rogue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who yawns and weeps, lamenting night and day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Impotent fathead) in the same old brogue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I will be good—one day!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The clock says in a whisper, "He is ready</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The damned one, whom I warned of his disaster.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's blind, and deaf, and like a wall unsteady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where termites mine the plaster."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then one appeared whom all of them denied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said with mocking laughter "To my manger</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You've <em>all</em> come; to the Black Mass I provide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not one of you's a stranger.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You've built me temples in your hearts of sin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You've kissed my buttocks in your secret mirth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know me for Satan by this conquering grin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As monstrous as the Earth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>D'you think, poor hypocrites surprised red-handed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you can trick your lord without a hitch;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that by guile two prizes can be landed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heaven, and being rich?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The wages of the huntsman is his quarry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which pays him for the chills he gets while stalking.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Companions of my revels grim and sorry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am going to take you walking,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Down through the denseness of the soil and rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down through the dust and ash you leave behind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into a palace, built in one sole block,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of stone that is not kind:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For it is build of Universal Sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And holds of me all that is proud and glorious"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—Meanwhile an angel, far above the din,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sends forth a peal victorious</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For all whose hearts can say, "I bless thy rod;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blessèd be the griefs that on us fall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul is but a toy, Eternal God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy wisdom all in all!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And so deliciously that trumpet blows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On evening of celestial harvestings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It makes a rapture in the hearts of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose love and praise it sings.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
