<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Spleen et Idéal</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-1-1" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Spleen et Idéal</h3>
			<article id="benediction" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Benediction</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>When by an edict of the powers supreme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A poet’s born into this world’s drab space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His mother starts, in horror, to blaspheme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clenching her fists at God, who grants her grace.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Would that a nest of vipers I’d aborted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rather than this absurd abomination.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cursed be the night of pleasures vainly sported</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On which my womb conceived my expiation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Since of all women I am picked by You</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be my Mate’s aversion and his shame:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And since I cannot, like a billet-doux,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consign this stunted monster to the flame,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’ll turn the hatred, which You load on me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the curst tool through which You work your spite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And twist and stunt this miserable tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until it cannot burgeon for the blight.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She swallows down the white froth of her ire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, knowing naught of schemes that are sublime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep in Gehenna, starts to lay the pyre</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s consecrated to maternal crime.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet with an unseen Angel for protector</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The outcast waif grows drunken with the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And finds ambrosia, too, and rosy nectar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all he eats or drinks, suspecting none.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sings upon his Via Crucis, plays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With winds, and with the clouds exchanges words:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Spirit following his pilgrim-ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weeps to behold him gayer than the birds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Those he would love avoid him as in fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or, growing bold to see one so resigned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compete to draw from him a cry or tear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And test on him the fierceness of their kind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In food or drink that’s destined for his taste</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They mix saliva foul with cinders black,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drop what he’s touched with hypocrite distaste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blame themselves for walking in his track.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His wife goes crying in the public way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—“Since fair enough he finds me to adore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The part of ancient idols I will play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gild myself with coats of molten ore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I will get drunk on incense, myrrh, and nard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On genuflexions, meat, and heady wine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of his crazed and wondering regard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll laugh to steal prerogatives divine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When by such impios farces bored at length,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll place my frail strong hand on him, and start,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With nails like those of harpies in their strength,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To plough myself a pathway to his heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like a young bird that trembles palpitating,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll wrench his heart, all crimson, from his chest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to my favourite beast, his hunger sating,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will fling it in the gutter with a jest.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Skyward, to where he sees a Throne blaze splendid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pious Poet lifts his arms on high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the vast lightnings of his soul extended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blot out the crowds and tumults from his eye.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Blessèd be You, O God, who give us pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As cure for our impurity and wrong⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Essence that primes the stalwart to sustain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seraphic raptures that were else too strong.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know that for the Poet You’ve a post,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the blest Legions take their ranks and stations,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invited to the revels with the host</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Virtues, Powers, and Thrones, and Dominations.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That grief’s the sole nobility, I know it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where neither Earth nor Hell can make attacks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that, to deck my mystic crown of poet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All times and universes paid their tax.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But all the gems from old Palmyra lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ores unmixed, the pearls of the abyss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Set by Your hand, could not suffice the cost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of such a blazing diadem as this.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because it will be only made of light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drawn from the hearth of the essential rays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To which our mortal eyes, when burning bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are but the tarnished mirrors that they glaze.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-albatross" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Albatross</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Sometimes for sport the men of loafing crews</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Snare the great albatrosses of the deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The indolent companions of their cruise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As through the bitter vastitudes they sweep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Scarce have they fished aboard these airy kings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When helpless on such unaccustomed floors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They piteously droop their huge white wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And trail them at their sides like drifting oars.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How comical, how ugly, and how meek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appears this soarer of celestial snows!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One, with his pipe, teases the golden beak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One, limping, mocks the cripple as he goes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Poet, like this monarch of the clouds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Despising archers, rides the storm elate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, stranded on the earth to jeering crowds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The great wings of the giant baulk his gait.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="elevation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Elevation</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Above the valleys and the lakes: beyond</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The woods, seas, clouds, and mountain-ranges: far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the sun, the aethers silver swanned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With nebulae, and the remotest star,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My spirit! with agility you move</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a strong swimmer with the seas to fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the blue vastness furrowing your groove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an ineffable and male delight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Far from these foetid marshes, be made pure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the pure air of the superior sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drink, like some most exquisite liqueur,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fire that fills the lucid realms on high.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beyond where cares or boredom hold dominion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which charge our fogged existence with their spleen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Happy is he who with a stalwart pinion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can seek those fields so shining and serene:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whose thoughts, like larks, rise on the freshening breeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fans the morning with his tameless wings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skims over life, and understands with ease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The speech of flowers and other voiceless things.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="correspondences" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Correspondences</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Nature’s a temple where each living column,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At times, gives forth vague words. There Man advances</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through forest-groves of symbols, strange and solemn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who follow him with their familiar glances.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As long-drawn echoes mingle and transfuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till in a deep, dark unison they swoon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vast as the night or as the vault of noon⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So are commingled perfumes, sounds, and hues.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There can be perfumes cool as children’s flesh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like fiddles, sweet, like meadows greenly fresh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rich, complex, and triumphant, others roll</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With the vast range of all non-finite things⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amber, musk, incense, benjamin, each sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The transports of the senses and the soul.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="i-love-the-thought-of-those-old-naked-days" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h4>
				<p>
					<span>I love the thought of those old naked days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Phoebus gilded torsos with his rays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When men and women sported, strong and fleet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without anxiety or base deceit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heaven caressed them, amorously keen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prove the health of each superb machine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cybele then was lavish of her guerdon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And did not find her sons too gross a burden:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, like a she-wolf, in her love great-hearted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her full brown teats to all the world imparted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bold, handsome, strong Man, rightly, might evince</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pride in the glories that proclaimed him prince⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fruits pure of outrage, by the blight unsmitten,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With firm, smooth flesh that cried out to be bitten.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Today the Poet, when he would assess</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those native splendours in the nakedness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of man or woman, feels a sombre chill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enveloping his spirit and his will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He meets a gloomy picture, which he loathes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherin deformity cries out for clothes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh comic runts! of horror of burlesque!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lank, flabby, skewed, pot-bellied, and grotesque!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom their smug god, Utility (poor brats!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has swaddled in his brazen clouts “ersatz”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As with cheap tinsel. Women tallow-pale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both gnawed and nourished by debauch, who trail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The heavy burden of maternal vice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or of fecundity the hideous price.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We have (corrupted nations) it is true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beauties the ancient people never knew⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sad faces gnawed by cancers of the heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And charms which morbid lassitudes impart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But these inventions of our tardy muse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can’t force our ailing peoples to refuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just tribute to the holiness of youth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its straightforward mien, its forhead couth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The limpid gaze, like running water brigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Diffusing, careless, through all things, like the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of azure skies, the birds, the winds, the flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The songs, and perfumes, and heart-warming powers.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-beacons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Beacons</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Rubens, the grove of ease, Nepenthe’s river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Couch of cool flesh, where Love may never be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But where life ever flows and seems to quiver</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As air in heaven, or, in the sea, the sea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Da Vinci, dusky mirror and profound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where angels, smiling mystery, appear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shaded by pines and glaciers, that surround</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seem to shut their country in the rear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rembrandt, sad hospital of murmurs, where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adorned alone by one great crucifix,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From offal-heaps exhales the weeping prayer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That winter shoots a sunbeam to transfix.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Vague region, Michaelangelo, where Titans</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are mixed with Christs: and strong ghosts rise, in crowds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stand bold upright in the gloom that lightens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gristly talons tearing through their shrouds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rage of the boxer, mischief of the faun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Extracting beauty out of blackguards’ looks⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The heart how proud, the man how pinched and drawn⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Puget the mournful emperor of crooks!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Watteau, the carnival, where famous hearts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go flitting by like butterflies that burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While through gay scenes each chandelier imparts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A madness to the dancers as they turn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Goya’s a nightmare full of things unguessed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of foeti stewed on nights of witches’ revels.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crones ogle mirrors; children scarcely dressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adjust their hose to tantalise the devils.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A lake of gore where fallen angels dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is Delacroix, by firwoods ever fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where under fretful skies strange fanfares swell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Weber’s sighs and heartbeats in the air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>These curses, blasphemies, and lamentations,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These ecstasies, tears, cries and soaring psalms⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through endless mazes, their reverberations</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bring, to our mortal hearts, divinest balms.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A thousand sentinels repeat the cry.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand trumpets echo. Beacon-tossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand summits flare it through the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A call of hunters in the jungle lost.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And certainly this is the most sublime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proof of our worth and value, Oh Divinity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That this great sob rolls on through ageless time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To die upon the shores of your infinity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-sick-muse" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Sick Muse</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, poor Muse, what ails you so today?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your hollow eyes with midnight visions burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turn about, in your complexion play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Madness and horror, cold and taciturn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Green succubus and rosy imp⁠—have they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poured you both fear and love into one glass?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or with his tyrant fist the nightmare, say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Submerged you in some fabulous morass?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I wish that, breathing health, your breast might nourish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ever robuster thoughts therein to flourish:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that your Christian blood, in rythmic flow,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With those old polysyllables would chime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, turn about, reigned Phoebus, sire of rhyme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Pan, the lord of harvests long ago.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-venal-muse" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Venal Muse</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Muse of my heart, of palaces the lover,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where will you, when the blast of winter blows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the black boredom of snowed lights, discover</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A glowing brand to warm your violet toes?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How will you there revive your marbled skin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the chill rays your shutters then disperse?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gold of azure heavens will you win</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When empty are your palate and your purse?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’ll need each evening, then, to earn your bread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As choirboys swinging censers that are dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who sing Te Deums which they disbelieve:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or, fasting pierrette, trade your loveliness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And laughter, soaked in tears that none can guess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The boredom of the vulgar to relieve.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-evil-monk" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Evil Monk</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The walls of cloisters on their frescoed lath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Displayed, in pictures, sacred truths of old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose sight would warm the entrails of one’s faith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To temper their austerity and cold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In times when every sowing flowered for Christ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lived famous monks, now out of memory’s reach;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The graveyard for their library sufficed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Death was glorified in simple speech.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My soul’s a grave, where, evil cenobite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all eternity I have been banned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing adorns this cloister full of spite.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O idle monk! Say, to what end were planned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The living spectacle of my sad plight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love of my eye, or labour of my hand?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-enemy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Enemy</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>My youth was but a tempest, dark and savage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through which, at times, a dazzling sun would shoot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thunder and the rain have made such ravage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My garden is nigh bare of rosy fruit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now I have reached the Autumn of my thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spade and rake must toil the land to save,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That fragments of my flooded fields be sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From where the water sluices out a grave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who knows if the new flowers my dreams prefigure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this washed soil should find, as by a sluit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mystic nourishment to give them vigour?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Time swallows up our life, O ruthless rigour!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the dark foe that nibbles our heart’s root,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grows on our blood the stronger and the bigger!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ill-luck" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Ill Luck</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>So huge a burden to support</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your courage, Sisyphus, would ask;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well though my heart attacks its task,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet Art is long and Time is short.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Far from the famed memorial arch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Towards a lonely grave I come.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart in its funereal march</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goes beating like a muffled drum.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>—Yet many a gem lies hidden still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of whom no pick-axe, spade, or drill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lonely secrecy invades;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And many a flower, to heal regret,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pours forth its fragrant secret yet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amidst the solitary shades.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="former-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Former Life</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>I’ve lived beneath huge portals where marine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suns coloured, with a myriad fires, the waves;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At eve majestic pillars made the scene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resemble those of vast basaltic caves.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The breakers, rolling the reflected skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mixed, in a solemn, enigmatic way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The powerful symphonies they seem to play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With colours of the sunset in my eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There did I live in a voluptuous calm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where breezes, waves, and splendours roved as vagrants;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And naked slaves, impregnated with fragrance,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Would fan my forehead with their fronds of palm:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their only charge was to increase the anguish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of secret grief in which I loved to languish.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="gipsies-on-the-road" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Gipsies on the Road</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The tribe of seers, last night, began its march</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With burning eyes, and shouldering its young</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To whose ferocious appetites it swung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wealth of hanging breasts that nought can parch.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The men, their weapons glinting in the rays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walk by the convoy where their folks are carted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweeping the far-off skylines with a gaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Regretful of Chimeras long-departed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out of his hole the cricket sees them pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sings the louder. Greener grows the grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because Cybele loves them, and has made</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The barren rock to gush, the sands to flower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To greet these travellers, before whose power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Familiar futures open realms of shade.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="man-and-the-sea" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Man and the Sea</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Free man, you’ll always love the sea⁠—for this,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it’s a mirror, where you see your soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In its eternal waves that chafe and roll;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor is your soul less bitter an abyss.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In your reflected image there to merge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You love to dive, its eyes and limbs to match.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes your heart forgets its own, to catch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rhythm of that wild and tameless dirge.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The two of you are shadowy, deep, and wide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man! None has ever plummeted your floor⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sea! None has ever known what wealth you store</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both are so jealous of the things you hide!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet age on age is ended, or begins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While you without remorse or pity fight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So much in death and carnage you delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eternal wrestlers! Unrelenting twins!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="don-juan-in-hell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Don Juan in Hell</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>When, having reached the subterranean wave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don Juan paid his passage from the shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud as Antisthenes, a surly knave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With vengeful arms laid hold of either oar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With hanging breasts between their mantles showing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sad women, writhing under the black sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made, as they went, the sound of cattle lowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As from a votive herd that’s led to die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sganarelle for his wages seemed to linger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And laughed; while to the dead assembled there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don Luis pointed out with trembling finger</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The son who dared to flout his silver hair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Chilled in her crêpe, the chaste and thin Elvira,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Standing up close to her perfidious spouse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed to be pleading from her old admirer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that which thrilled his first, unbroken vows.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A great stone man in armour leaped aboard;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seizing the helm, the coal-black wave he cleft.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the calm hero, leaning on his sword,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had eyes for nothing but the wake they left.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-punishment-of-pride" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Punishment of Pride</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>When first Theology in her young prime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flourished with vigour, in that wonderous time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an illustrious Doctor it was said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, having forced indifferent hearts to shed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tears of emotion, moved to depths profound:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And having to celestial glory found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marvellous paths, to his own self unknown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where only purest souls had fared alone⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a man raised too high, as in a panic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crazed with a vertigo of pride satanic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He cried “Poor Christ, I’ve raised you to renown!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But had I wished to bring you crashing down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Probing your flaws, your shame would match your pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you’d be but a foetus to deride!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Immediately he felt his wits escape,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That flash of sunlight veiled itself in crêpe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All chaos through his intellect was rolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A temple once, containing hoards of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By opulence and order well controlled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And topped with ceilings splendid to behold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silence and night installed their reign in him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seemed he was a cellar dank and dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To which no living man could find the key;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from that day a very beast was he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And while he wandered senseless on his way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not knowing spring from summer, night from day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foul, dirty, useless, and with no hereafter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He served the children as a butt for laughter.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="beauty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Beauty</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>I’m fair, O mortals, as a dream of stone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My breasts whereon, in turn, your wrecks you shatter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were made to wake in poets’ hearts alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A love as indestructible as matter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A sky-throned sphinx, unknown yet, I combine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cygnet’s whiteness with a heart of snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I loathe all movement that displaces line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And neither tears nor laughter do I know</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Poets before my postures, which I seem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To learn from masterpieces, love to dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there in austere thought consume their days.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have, these docile lovers to subject,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mirrors that glorify all they reflect⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These eyes, great eyes, eternal in their blaze!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-ideal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Ideal</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>It’s not with smirking beauties of vignettes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shopsoiled products of a worthless age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With buskined feet and hands for castañets⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heart like mine its longing could assuage.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I leave Gavarni, poet of chloroses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His twittering flock, anaemic and unreal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could not find among such bloodless roses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A flower to match my crimson-hued ideal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To this heart deeper than the deepest canyon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lady Macbeth would be a fit companion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crime-puissant dream of Aeschylus; or you,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Daughter of Buonarroti, stately Night!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose charms to suit a Titan’s appetite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You twist, so strange, yet peaceful, to the view.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-giantess" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Giantess</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Of old when Nature, in her verve defiant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conceived each day some birth of monstrous mien,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would have lived near some young female giant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a voluptuous cat beside a queen;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To see her body flowering with her soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Freely develop in her mighty games,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the mists that through her gaze would roll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Guess that her heart was hatching sombre flames;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To roam her mighty contours as I please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ramp on the cliff of her tremendous knees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the solstice, when the suns that kill</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Make her stretch out across the land and rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sleep beneath the shadow of her breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a hushed village underneath a hill.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-mask" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">The Mask</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">An allegoric statue in Renaissance style.</p>
					<p epub:type="dedication"><b>To Ernest Christophe</b>, sculptor</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Study with me this Florentinian treasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose undulous and muscular design</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Welds Grace with Strength in sisterhood divine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A marvel only wonderment can measure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Divinely strong, superbly slim and fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’s formed to reign upon a bed of pleasure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And charm some prince or pontiff in his leisure.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See, too, her smile voluptuously shine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where sheer frivolity displays its sign:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That lingering look of langour, guile, and cheek,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dainty face, which veils of gauze enshrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That seems in conquering accents thus to speak:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Pleasure commands me. Love my brow has crowned!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enamouring our thoughts in humble duty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>True majesty with merriment is found.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Approach, let’s take a turn about her beauty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O blasphemy! Dread shock! Our hopes to pique,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This lovely body, promising delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ends at the top in a two-headed freak.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But no! it’s just a mask that tricked our sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fooling us with that exquisite grimace:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the reverse you see her proper face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fiercely convulsed, in its true self revealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which from our sight that lying mask concealed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—O sad great beauty! The grand river, fed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By your rich tears, debouches in my heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though I am rapt with your deceptive art,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul is slaked upon the tears you shed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet why does she weep? Such peerless grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could trample down the conquered human race.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What evil gnaws her flank so strong and sleek?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She weeps because she’s lived, and that she lives.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Madly she weeps for that. But more she grieves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(And at the knees she trembles and goes weak)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because tomorrow she must live, and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The next day, and forever⁠—like us men.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hymn-to-beauty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Hymn to Beauty</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Did you spring out of heaven or the abyss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beauty? Your gaze infernal, yet divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spreads infamy and glory, grief and bliss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And therefore you can be compared to wine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your eyes contain both sunset and aurora:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You give off scents, like evenings storm-deflowered:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your kisses are a philtre: an amphóra</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mouth, that cows the brave, and spurs the coward.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Climb you from gulfs, or from the stars descend?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fate, like a fawning hound, to heel you’ve brought;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You scatter joy and ruin without end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ruling all things, yet answering for naught.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You trample men to death, and mock their clamour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amongst your gauds pale Horor gleams and glances,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Murder, not the least of them in glamour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On your proud belly amorously dances.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The dazzled insect seeks your candle-rays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crackles, and burns, and seems to bless his doom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The groom bent o’er his bride as in a daze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seems, like a dying man, to stroke his tomb.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What matter if from hell or heaven born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tremendous monster, terrible to view?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your eyes and smile reveal to me, like morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Infinite I love but never knew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From God or Fiend? Siren or Sylph? Invidious</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The answer⁠—Fay with eyes of velvet, ray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rhythm, and perfume!⁠—if you make less hideous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our universe, less tedious leave our day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="exotic-perfume" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Exotic Perfume</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>When I, with eyes shut, on warm autumn eves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fragrance of your warmer breast respire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see a country bathed in solar fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose happy shores its lustre never leaves;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>An isle of indolence, where nature raises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Singular trees and fruits both sweet and tender,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where men have bodies vigorous and slender</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And women’s eyes a candour that amazes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Led by your scent to fairer climes at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see a port of sails, where every mast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seems weary of the labours of its cruise;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>While scents of tamarind, blown here and there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swelling my nostrils as they rinse the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are mingled with the chanties of the crews.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="her-hair" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Her Hair</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>O fleece that down her nape rolls, plume on plume!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O curls! O scent of nonchalance and ease!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What ecstacy! To populate this room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With memories it harbours in its gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d shake it like a banner on the breeze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hot Africa and languid Asia play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(An absent world, defunct, and far away)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within that scented forest, dark and dim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As other souls on waves of music swim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mine on its perfume sails, as on the spray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’ll journey there, where man and sap-filled tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swoon in hot light for hours. Be you my sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strong tresses! Be the breakers and gales</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That waft me. Your black river holds, for me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dream of masts and rowers, flames and sails.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A port, resounding there, my soul delivers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With long deep draughts of perfumes, scent, and clamour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where ships, that glide through gold and purple rivers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fling wide their vast arms to embrace the glamour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of skies wherein the heat forever quivers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’ll plunge my head in it, half drunk with pleasure⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this black ocean that engulfs her form.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul, caressed with wavelets there may measure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Infinite rockings in embalmèd leisure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Creative idleness that fears no storm!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Blue tresses, like a shadow-stretching tent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shed the blue of heavens round and far.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along its downy fringes as I went</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I reeled half-drunken to confuse the scent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of oil of coconuts, with musk and tar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My hand forever in your mane so dense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rubies and pearls and sapphires there will sow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you to my desire be never slow⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oasis of my dreams, and gourd from whence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep-draughted wines of memory will flow.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="more-than-night's-vault" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h4>
				<p>
					<span>More than night’s vault, it’s you that I adore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vessel of sorrow, silent one, the more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because you flee from me, and seem to place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ornament of my nights! more leagues of space</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ironically between me and you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than part me from these vastitudes of blue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I charge, attack, and mount to the assault</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As morms attack a corpse within a vault.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cherish even the coldness that you boast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By which, harsh beast, you subjugate me most.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="you'd-stick-the-world" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h4>
				<p>
					<span>You’d stick the world into your bedside lane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s boredom makes you callous to all pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To exercise your teeth for this strange task,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heart upon a rake, each day, you’d ask.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your eyes lit up like shopfronts, or the trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With lanterns on the night of public sprees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make insolent misues of borrowed power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scorn the law of beauty that’s their dower.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh deaf-and-dumb machine, harm-breeding fool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>World sucking leech, yet salutary tool!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have you not seen your beauties blanch to pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before their own reflection in the glass?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before this pain, in which you think you’re wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Does not its greatness shock you with surprise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think that Nature, deep in projects hidden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has chosen you, vile creature of the midden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To knead a genius for the succeeding time.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O sordid grandeur! Infamy sublime!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sed-non-satiata" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Sed Non Satiata</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Strange goddess, brown as evening to the sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose scent is half of musk, half of havanah,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Work of some obi, Faust of the Savanah,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ebony witch, and daughter of the night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By far preferred to troth, or drugs, or sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love vaunts the red elixir of your mouth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My caravan of longings seeks in drouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your eyes, the wells at which my cares drink deep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through those black eyes, by which your soul respires,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pitiless demon! pour less scorching fires.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am no Styx nine times with flame to wed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor can I turn myself to Proserpine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To break your spell, Megera libertine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within the dark inferno of your bed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="with-waving-opalescence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h4>
				<p>
					<span>With waving opalescence in her gown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even when she walks along, you think she’s dancing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like those long snakes which charmers, while entrancing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wave with their wands, in cadence, up and down.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like the sad sands of deserts and their skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By human sufferings untouched and free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or like the surfy curtains of the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She flaunts a cold indifference. Her eyes</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are made of charming minerals well-burnished.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her nature, both by sphynx and angel furnished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is old, intact, symbolic, and bizarre:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She seems, made all of gems, steel, light, and gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In barrenness, majestic, hard, and cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To blaze forever, like a useless star.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-snake-that-dances" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Snake That Dances</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>I love to watch, while you are lazing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your skin. It iridesces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like silk or satin, smoothly-glazing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The light that it caresses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Under your tresses dark and deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where acrid perfumes drown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fragrant sea whose breakers sweep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In mazes blue or brown,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My soul, a ship, to the attraction</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of breezes that bedizen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its swelling canvas, clears for action</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And seeks a far horizon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your eyes where nothing can be seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Either of sweet or bitter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But gold and iron mix their sheen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seem frosty gems that glitter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To see you rhythmically advancing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seems to my fancy fond</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if it were a serpent dancing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Waved by the charmer’s wand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Under the languorous moods that weigh it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your childish head bows down:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a young elephant’s you sway it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With motions soft as down.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your body leans upon the hips</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a fine ship that laves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its hull from side to side, and dips</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its yards into the waves.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When, as by glaciers ground, the spate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swells hissing from beneath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The water of your mouth, elate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rises between your teeth⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It seems some old Bohemian vintage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Triumphant, fierce, and tart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A liquid heaven that showers a mintage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of stars across my heart.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-carcase" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Carcase</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The object that we saw, let us recall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This summer morn when warmth and beauty mingle⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the path’s turn, a carcase lay asprawl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon a bed of shingle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Legs raised, like some old whore far-gone in passion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The burning, deadly, poison-sweating mass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Opened its paunch in careless, cynic fashion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ballooned with evil gas.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On this putrescence the sun blazed in gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cooking it to a turn with eager care⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So to repay to Nature, hundredfold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What she had mingled there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sky, as on the opening of a flower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On thhis superb obscenity smiled bright.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stench drove at us, with such fearsome power</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You thought you’d swoon outright.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Flies trumpeted upon the rotten belly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whence larvae poured in legions far and wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flowed, like molten and liquescent jelly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Down living rags of hide.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The mass ran down, or, like a wave elated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rolled itself on, and crackled as if frying:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’d think that corpse, by vague breath animated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Drew life from multiplying.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through that strange world a rustling rumour ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like rushing water or a gust of air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or grain that winnowers, with rhythmic fan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sweep simmering here and there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It seemed a dream after the forms grew fainter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or like a sketch that slowly seems to dawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a forgotten canvas, which the painter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From memory has drawn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behind the rocks a restless cur that slunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eyed us with fretful greed to recommence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His feast, amidst the bonework, on the chunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That he had torn from thence.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet you’ll resemble this infection too</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One day, and stink and sprawl in such a fashion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Star of my eyes, sun of my nature, you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My angel and my passion!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, you must come to this, O queen of graces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At length, when the last sacraments are over,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you go down to moulder in dark places</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beneath the grass and clover.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then tell the vermin as it takes its pleasance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And feasts with kisses on that face of yours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve kept intact in form and godlike essence</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our decomposed amours!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="de-profundis-clamavi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">De Profundis Clamavi</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Have pity, my one love and sole delight!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down to a dark abyss my heart has sounded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mournful world, by grey horizons bounded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where blasphemy and horror swim by night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For half the year a heatless sun gives light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The other half the night obscures the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The arctic regions never knew such dearth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No woods, nor streams, nor creatures meet the sight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No horror in the world could match in dread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cruelty of that dire sun of frost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that huge night like primal chaos spread.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I envy creatures of the vilest kind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they in stupid slumber can be lost⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So slowly does the skein of time unwind!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-vampire" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Vampire</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>You, who like a dagger ploughed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into my heart with deadly thrill:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You who, stronger than a crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of demons, mad, and dressed to kill,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of my dejected soul have made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your bed, your lodging, and domain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To whom I’m linked (Unseemly Jade!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As is a convict to his chain,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or as the gamester to his dice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or as the drunkard to his dram,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or as the carrion to its lice⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I curse you. Would my curse could damn!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have besought the sudden blade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To win for me my freedom back.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perfidious poison I have prayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To help my cowardice. Alack!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Both poison and the sword disdained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My cowardice, and seemed to say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You are not fit to be unchained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From your damned servitude. Away,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You imbecile! since if from her empire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We were to liberate the slave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’d raise the carrion of your vampire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By your own kisses, from the grave.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-night-when" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h4>
				<p>
					<span>One night when, near a fearful Jewess lying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As one corpse by another corpse, I sprawled⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beside the venal body I was buying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beauty that was absent I recalled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I pictured you in native majesty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With glances full of energy and grace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your hair, a perfumed casque, whose memory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Revives me for the amorous embrace.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For madly I’d have kissed your noble frame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from your cool feet to your great black tresses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unleashed the treasure of profound caresses,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If with a single tear that gently came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You could have quenched, O queen of all the cruel!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blazing of your eyes, their icy fuel.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="posthumous-remorse" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Posthumous Remorse</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>When you’re asleep, dear shadow-coloured wench,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within a coal-black, marble monument:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, for your room and mansion, you are pent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a wet cellar and a hollow trench:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When the stone, pressing on your startled breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flanks in fluent suppleness competing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prevents your heart from wishing or from beating,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your feet from racing on their reckless quest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The tomb that shares my deathless recollection</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For poets best are understood by tombs)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On those long nights, when never sleep presumes,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Will say, “What boots, frail vase of imperfection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not to have known what pains with death begin?”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, like remorse, the worm will gnaw your skin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cat-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Cat</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Come, my fine cat, against my loving heart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sheathe your sharp claws, and settle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let my eyes into your pupils dart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where agate sparks with metal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now while my fingertips caress at leisure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your head and wiry curves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that my hand’s elated with the pleasure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of your electric nerves,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I think about my woman⁠—how her glances</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like yours, dear beast, deep-down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cold, can cut and wound one as with lances;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Then, too, she has that vagrant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And subtle air of danger that makes fragrant</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her body, lithe and brown.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="duel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Duel</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Two fighters rushed together: sabres bleak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With crimson blood-gouts lit the air above.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That clinking swordplay was the tender squeak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of youth, when it’s a prey to bleating love.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The swords are splintered, like our youth, my darling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now it’s teeth and talons are the fashion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The clash of swords is child’s play to the snarling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hearts adult in ulcerated passion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the ravine by lynx and leopard haunted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our heroes, wrestling heroes, roll undaunted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rags of their skin flower red upon the gorse.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This gulf is hell, and peopled by our friends.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here, hellcat! Come, let’s roll without remorse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To celebrate a feud that never ends!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-balcony" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Balcony</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Mother of memories, queen of paramours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yourself are all my pleasure, all my duty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You will recall caresses that were yours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fireside evenings in their warmth and beauty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mother of memories, queen of paramours.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On eves illumined by the light of coal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The balcony beneath a rose-veiled sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your breast how soft! Your heart how good and whole!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We spoke eternal things that cannot die⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On eves illumined by the light of coal!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How splendid sets the sun of a warm evening!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How deep is space! the heart how full of power!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, queen of the adored, towards you leaning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I breathed the perfume of your blood in flower.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How splendid sets the sun of a warm evening!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The evening like an alcove seemed to thicken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as my eyes astrologised your own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drinking your breath, I felt sweet poisons quicken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in my hands your feet slept still as stone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The evening like an alcove seemed to thicken.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know how to resuscitate dead minutes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see my past, its face hid in your knees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How can I seek your languorous charm save in its</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Own source, your heart and body formed to please.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know how to resuscitate dead minutes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>These vows, these perfumes, and these countless kisses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reborn from gulfs that we could never sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will they, like suns, once bathed in those abysses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rejuvenated from the deep, rebound⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These vows, these perfumes, and these countless kisses?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-possessed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Possessed</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The sun in crêpe has muffled up his fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moon of my life! Half shade yourself like him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slumber or smoke. Be silent and be dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the gulf of boredom plunge entire;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I love you thus! However, if you like,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like some bright star from its eclipse emerging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To flaunt with Folly where the crowds are surging⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flash, lovely dagger, from your sheath and strike!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Light up your eyes from chandeliers of glass!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Light up the lustful looks of louts that pass!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Morbid or petulant, I thrill before you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Be what you will, black night or crimson dawn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No fibre of my body tautly-drawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But cries: “Beloved demon, I adore you!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-phantom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">A Phantom</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="a-phantom-1">
					<hgroup>
						<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
						<h6 epub:type="title">The Shades</h6>
					</hgroup>
					<p>
						<span>My fate confines me, dark and shady,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In vaults of lone unfathomed grief.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No rosy sunbeams bring relief.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alone with Night, my grim landlady,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I’m like a painter whom God spites</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To paint on shades, and cook and eat</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My own poor heart, the only meat</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of my funereal appetites.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Sometimes a spectre dim, reclining</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In grace and glory, can be seen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With dreamy oriental mien.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>When fully its own form defining,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I recognise who it must be,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sombre yet luminous, it’s She!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="a-phantom-2">
					<hgroup>
						<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
						<h6 epub:type="title">The Perfume</h6>
					</hgroup>
					<p>
						<span>Reader, say, have you ever breathed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With lazy greed and joy, the dusk</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of an old church with incense wreathed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or smelt an ancient bag of musk?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It’s by such charms the Nevermore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Intoxicates us in the Now⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As lover to Remembrance bow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over the bodies they adore.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>From her thick tresses as they fume</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Scent-sack and censer of the room)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A feline, tawny perfume springs.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Her muslins and her velvets smooth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give off, made pregnant with her youth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Scents of the fur of prowling things.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="a-phantom-3">
					<hgroup>
						<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h5>
						<h6 epub:type="title">The Frame</h6>
					</hgroup>
					<p>
						<span>As a fine frame improves a plate</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Although the graver needs no vaunting⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I know not what strange and haunting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(From nature vast to isolate</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Her beauty) was conferred by gems,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Metals, and gear. She mingled with them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And swirled them all into her rhythm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As in her skirts the flouncing hems.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>They say she thought all things were stung</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With love for her. Her naked flesh</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She loved to drown in kisses fresh</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Of flax or satin. To her clung,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In all the movements of her shape,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The childish graces of the ape.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="a-phantom-4">
					<hgroup>
						<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h5>
						<h6 epub:type="title">The Portrait</h6>
					</hgroup>
					<p>
						<span>Sickness and death will form the ash and dust</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all the fire we blazed with in such splendour,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of those great eyes so fervent and so tender,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The mouth wherein my heart would drown its lust,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The kisses strong as marum, the delightful,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fierce transports livelier than the solar rays.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What can remain? My soul, the truth is frightful!⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A fading sketch, a faint three-coloured haze,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Which (like myself unfriended) wanes away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While Time, insulting dotard, every day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Brushes it fainter with his heedless wing⁠ ⁠…</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Killer of life and art! black, evil King!⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You’ll never kill, within my soul, the story</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of that which was my rapture and my glory.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="for-you-this-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</h4>
				<p>
					<span>For you this poem: if my name should reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Favoured by mighty gales, to far-off times,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a proud vessel sailing to the beach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stir the brains of humans with my rhymes⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your memory, uncertain as a myth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will tire the reader like an endless gong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And be a mystic, kindred chain wherewith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’ll hang suspended to my towering song:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Curs’d soul to whom (from the supernal sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hell’s abysm) none responds but I!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O you, who like a fleeting shadow pass,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Spurn with light foot and with serenest gaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stupid mortals who have grudged you praise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O jade-eyed statue, angel browed with brass!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="semper-eadem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Semper Eadem</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>“Whence,” ask you, “does this strange new sadness flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like rising tides on rocks, black, bare, and vast?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For human hearts, when vintage-time is past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To live is bad. That secret all men know⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>An obvious sorrow, with no mystery, shown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clear as your joy, to everyone around.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O curious one, seek nothing more profound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And speak not, though your voice be sweet in tone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hush, ignorant! Hush, soul that’s still enraptured,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mouth of childish laughter! Neatly captured,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death pulls us, more than life, with subtle wile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh let my thought get drunk upon a lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And plunge, as in a dream, in either eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in their lashes’ shadow sleep awhile!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="all-in-one" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">All in One</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The Demon called on me this morning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my high room. As is his way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking to catch me without warning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He put this question: “Tell me, pray,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of all the beauties that compose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strange enchantment of her ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amongst the wonders black or rose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which object most excites your praise,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And is the climax in her litany?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul, you answered the Abhorred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Since she is fashioned, all, of dittany,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No part is most to be adored.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Since I am ravished, I ignore a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Degree of difference in delight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She dazzles me like the aurora</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she consoles me like the night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The harmony’s so exquisite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That governs her, it is in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Analysis would try to split</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unity of such a strain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O mystic fusion that, enwreathing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My senses, fuses each in each,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear the music of her breathing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And breathe the perfume of her speech.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="what-can-you-say" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLII</h4>
				<p>
					<span>What can you say, poor lonely soul of mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or you, poor heart, so long ago turned sour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the best, dearest, loveliest, whose divine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Regard has made you open like a flower?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We’ll set our pride to sing her highest praise:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naught to her sweet authority compares:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her psychic flesh is formed of fragrant airs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her glances clothe us in a suit of rays.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Be it in solitude at dead of night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or in the crowded streets of glaring light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her phantom like a torch before me streams.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It speaks: “I’m beautiful. These orders take.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love naught but Beauty, always, for my sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Madonna, guardian Angel, Muse of dreams.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-living-torch" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Living Torch</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Those lit eyes go before me, in full view,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Some cunning angel magnetised their light)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heavenly twins, yet my own brothers too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shaking their diamond blaze into my sight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My steps from every trap or sin to save,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the strait road of Beauty they conduct me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are my servants, and I am their slave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obedient in whatever they instruct me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Delightful eyes, you burn with mystic rays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like candles in broad day; red suns may blaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But cannot quench their still, fantastic light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Those candles burn for death, but you for waking:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You sing the dawn that in my soul is breaking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stars which no sun could ever put to flight!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reversibility" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Reversibility</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Angel of gaiety, have you known anguish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shame and remorse, tears, boredom, and dismay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vague horrors of the nights in which we languish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which crumple hearts like papers thrown away?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Angel of gaiety, have you known anguish?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Angel of kindness, have you met with hate?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fists clenched in gloom, eyes running tears of gall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Vengeance beats his drum to subjugate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our faculties, the captain of them all?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Angel of kindness, have you met with hate?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Angel of health, have you beheld the Fevers?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across pale walls of wards they limp and stumble,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like exiles wan, with agues, chills, and shivers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeking the scanty sun with lips that mumble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Angel of health, have you beheld the Fevers?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Angel of beauty, do you know Old Age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fear of wrinkles, and the dire emotion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In eyes we’ve pierced too long, as on a page,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To read the secret horror of devotion?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Angel of beauty do you know Old Age?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Angel of goodness, radiance, and delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dying David would have begged to share</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The emanations of your body bright.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all I wish to ask of you is prayer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Angel of goodness, radiance, and delight.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="confession" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Confession</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Once, and once only, kind and gentle lady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your polished arm on mine you placed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Deep down within my spirit, dark and shady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I keep the memory uneffaced).</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A medal, newly-coined, of flashing silver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The full moon shone. The night was old.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its solemn grandeur, like a mighty river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through sleeping Paris softly rolled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Along the streets, by courtyard doors, cats darted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And passed in furtive, noiseless flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With ears pricked; or, like shades of friends departed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Followed us slowly through the night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cutting this easy intimacy through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hatched from out that pearly light⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O rich resounding instrument, from you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who’d always thrilled with loud delight,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From you, till then as joyful as a peal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of trumpets on a sparkling morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cry so plaintive that it seemed unreal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was staggeringly torn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like some misborn, deformed, and monstrous kid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who puts his family to the blush,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose presence in a cellar must be hid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his existence in a hush!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Poor angel! that harsh note was meant to sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“That nothing in this world is certain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And human egotism is the thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which all existence serves to curtain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That it’s an irksome task to be a beauty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A boring job one has to face⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like frigid dancers, smiling as a duty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With hard, mechanical grimace:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That building upon hearts is idiotic:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All cracks, love, beauty, and fraternity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until Oblivion puts them in his pocket</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pawn them on to old Eternity!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I often have recalled that moon of magic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That languid hush on quays and marts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then this confidence, so grim and tragic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the confessional of hearts.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spiritual-dawn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Spiritual Dawn</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>When in the company of the Ideal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(That gnawing tooth) Dawn enters, white and pink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rooms of rakes⁠—each sated beast can feel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An Angel waking through the fumes of drink.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For downcast Man, who dreams and suffers still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The azure of the mystic heaven above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gulf-like vertigo, attracts his will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, Goddess, lucid Being of pure love,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Over the smoking wreck of feasts and scandals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your phantom, rosy and enchanting, flies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still returns to my dialted eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sun has blackened out the flame of candles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So your victorious phantom seems as one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O blazing spirit, with the deathless Sun!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="evening-harmony" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Evening Harmony</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Now comes the eve, when on its stem vibrates</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each flower, evaporating like a censer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When sounds and scents in the dark air grow denser;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drowsed swoon through which a mournful waltz pulsates!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Each flower evaporates as from a censer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fiddle like a hurt heart palpitates;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drowsed swoon through which a mournful waltz pulsates;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sad, grand sky grows, altar-like, immenser.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The fiddle, like a hurt heart, palpitates,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heart that hates oblivion, ruthless censor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sad, grand sky grows, altar-like, immenser.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun in its own blood coagulates⁠ ⁠…</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A heart that hates oblivion, ruthless censor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The whole of the bright past resuscitates.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun in its own blood coagulates⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, monstrance-like, your memory flames intenser!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-flask" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Flask</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Perfumes there are which through all things can pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make all matter porous, even glass;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old coffers from the Orient brought, whose locks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grind sullenly when opening the box,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or, in an empty house, some ancient chest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where time and dust and gloom were long compressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May yield a flask where memory survives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a soul flashes into future lives.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A thousand thoughts, funereal larvae, laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shuddering softly under palls of shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May suddenly their soaring wings unfold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stained azure, glazed with rose, or filmed with gold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Intoxicating memory now flies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the dusk, and makes us close our eyes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vertigo draws the spirit which it grips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Towards some dark miasma of eclipse:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beside an ancient pit he makes her fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Lazarus, sweet-scented, tears his pall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wakes the spectral corpse of some now-cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rancid, sepulchral love he knew of old.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So when I’m lost to human memory, thrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In some old gloomy chest to lie alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A poor decrepit flask, cracked, abject, crusty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dirt, opaque and sticky, damp and dusty,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’ll be your pall and shroud, beloved pest!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The witness of your venom, and its test,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear poison, angel-brewed with deadly art⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Life, death, and dear corrosion of my heart.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="poisons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Poisons</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Wine can conceal a sordid room</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In rich, miraculous disguise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make such porticoes arise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Out of its flushed and crimson fume</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As makes the sunset in the skies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Opium the infinite enlarges,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And lengthens all that is past measure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It deepens time, and digs its treasure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With sad, black raptures it o’ercharges</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul, and surfeits it with pleasure.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Neither are worth the drug so strong</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you distil from your green eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lakes where I see my soul capsize</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Head downwards: and where, in one throng,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I slake my dreams, and quench my sighs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But to your spittle these seem naught⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It stings and burns. It steeps my thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spirit in oblivious gloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, in its dizzy onrush caught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dashes it on the shores of doom.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="misty-sky" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">L</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Misty Sky</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>One would have thought your eyes were veiled in haze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strange eyes! (Grey, green, or azure is their gaze?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seems they would reflect, in each renewal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The changing skies, dull, dreamy, fond, or cruel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You know those days both warm and hazy, which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Melt into tears the hearts that they bewitch:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the nerves, uneasy to control,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too-wide awake, upbraid the sleeping soul.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You, too, resemble such a lit horizon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As suns of misty seasons now bedizen⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As you shine out, a landscape fresh with rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With misty sunbeams sparkling on the plain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dangerous girl, seductive as the weather!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall I adore your snows and frosts together?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your relentless winter shall I feel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A kiss more sharp than that of ice and steel?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cat-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Cat</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="the-cat-2-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>A fine strong gentle cat is prowling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As in his bedroom, in my brain;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So soft his voice, so smooth its strain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That you can scarcely hear him miowling.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But should he venture to complain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or scold, the voice is rich and deep:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thus he manages to keep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The charm of his untroubled reign.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This voice, which seems to pearl and filter</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through my soul’s inmost shady nook,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fills me with poems, like a book,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And fortifies me, like a philtre.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>His voice can cure the direst pain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And it contains the rarest raptures.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The deepest meanings, which it captures,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It needs no language to explain.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>There is no bow that can so sweep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That perfect instrument, my heart:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or make more sumptuous music start</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From its most vibrant cord and deep,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Than can the voice of this strange elf,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This cat, bewitching and seraphic,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Subtly harmonious in his traffic</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all things else, and with himself.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-cat-2-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>So sweet a perfume seems to swim</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out of his fur both brown and bright,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I nearly was embalmed one night</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From (only once) caressing him.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Familiar Lar of where I stay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He rules, presides, inspires and teaches</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All things to which his empire reaches.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Perhaps he is a god, or fay.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>When to a cherished cat my gaze</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is magnet-drawn and then returns</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Back to itself, it there discerns,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With strange excitement and amaze,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Deep down in my own self, the rays</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of living opals, torch-like gleams</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And pallid fire of eyes, it seems,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That fixedly return my gaze.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-splendid-ship" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Splendid Ship</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Oh soft enchantress, I’ll record with truth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The diverse beauties that adorn your youth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yes, I will paint your charm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of womanhood with childhood arm in arm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When you go sweeping your wide skirts, to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You seem a splendid ship that out to sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Spreads its full sails, and with them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goes rolling in a soft, slow, lazy rhythm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Over your tall, round neck and those plump shoulders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your head swans forth its pride to all beholders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With grace triumphant, mild,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strange, you go your way, majestic child.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh soft enchantress, I’ll record with truth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The diverse beauties that adorn your youth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yes, I will paint your charm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of womanhood with childhood arm in arm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your bosom juts and stretches every stitch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Triumphant bosom, like a coffer rich</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With bosses round and rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like shields that draw the lightning from the air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Provoking shields, with rosy points uplifted!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coffer of secret charms, superbly gifted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose scents, liqueurs, and wine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turn heart and brain deliriously thine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When you go sweeping your wide skirts, to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You seem a splendid ship that out to sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Spreads its full sails, and with them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goes rolling in a soft, slow, lazy rhythm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your noble thighs, beneath the silks they swirl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Torment obscure desires and tease me, girl;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like sorcerers they are</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That stir black philtres in a deep, cool jar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your arms precocious Hercules would grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vie with pythons in their bright embrace:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The pressure they impart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would print your lovers’ image on your heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Over your tall, round neck and those plump shoulders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your head swans forth its pride to all beholders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With grace triumphant, mild,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strange, you go your way, majestic child.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="invitation-to-the-voyage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Invitation to the Voyage</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>My daughter, my sister,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consider the vista</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of living out there, you and I.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To love at our leisure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, ending our pleasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In climes you resemble to die.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There the suns, rainy-wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the clouds rise and set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the selfsame enchantment to charm me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That my senses receive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From your eyes, that deceive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they shine through your tears to disarm me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There’ll be nothing but beauty, wealth, pleasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all things in order and measure.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With old treasures furnished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By centuries burnished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To gleam in the shade of our chamber,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the rarest of flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vaguely mix through the hours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their own with the perfume of amber:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each sumptuous ceiling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each mirror revealing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wealth of the East, will be hung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the part and the whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May speak to the soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In its native, indigenous tongue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There’ll be nothing but beauty, wealth, pleasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all things in order and measure.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On the channels and streams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See each vessel that dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In its whimsical vagabond way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since its for your least whim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The oceans they swim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the ends of the night and the day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun, going down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its glory will crown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Canals, fields, and cities entire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the whole earth is rolled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the jacinth and gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of its warming and radiant fire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There’ll be nothing but beauty, wealth, pleasure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all things in order and measure.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the=irreparable" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Irreparable</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>How can we choke the old and long Remorse</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which lives, and squirms, and fights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And feeds on us as worms upon a corse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or, on the oak, its mites?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How can we choke the old and long Remorse?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What subtle philtre, wine, or drowsy draught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will drown that ancient foe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greedy as whores in his disastrous craft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ant-patient, sure, and slow?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What subtle philtre, wine, or drowsy draught?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lovely enchantress, if you know it, say</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To this soul whelmed with woes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dying, whom loads of wounded crush to clay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Under the horses’ shoes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lovely enchantress, if you know it, say</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To this poor moribund, while wolves yet stalk him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ravens croak his doom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To this spent soldier say if fate will baulk him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even of a cross or tomb⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Say to this moribund, while wolves yet stalk him!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Can this black muddy sky be ever lighted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shades be ever torn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Denser than pitch, to day and dusk benighted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To lightning, stars, or morn?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can this black muddy sky be ever lighted?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The candle Hope that shows the Inn to strangers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is blown out, snuffed, and melted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lacking both moon and glimmer, how shall rangers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of evil roads be sheltered?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The devil snuffed the light that burned for strangers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet witch, do you love spirits lost to grace?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose sins are not remitted?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Say, do you know Remorse, with venomed face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By whom our hearts are spitted?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet witch, do you love spirits lost to grace?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Irreparable gnaws us where it lurks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And for our soul’s defacement,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As on a monument the termite, works</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up from the very basement.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Irreparable gnaws us where it lurks.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In tawdry theatres I’ve sometimes seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How, to the blare of brasses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Miraculous, to light some hellish scene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like dawn, a fairy passes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In tawdry theatres I’ve often seen</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That by this fay of light, and gold, and gauzes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some monstrous fiend is slain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my heart knows no raptures or applauses⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A fleapit where, in vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One waits, and waits the creature winged with gauzes.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="conversation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Conversation</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>You’re like an autumn sky, rose, clear, and placid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sorrow whelms me, like the tide’s assault,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ebbing, leaves upon my lips the acid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And muddy-bitter memory of its salt.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your hand may stroke my breast, but not console.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What it seeks there is but a hole, deep caverned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By woman’s claws and fangs, and ransacked whole.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seek not my heart, on which the beasts have ravened.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My heart’s a palace plundered by the rabble:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They tope, they kill, in blood and guts they scrabble:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—A perfume swims around your naked breast!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Beauty, flail of spirits, you know best!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With your eyes’ fire, lit up as for a spree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Char the poor rags those beasts have left of me!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="song-of-autumn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Song of Autumn</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="song-of-autumn-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Soon into frozen shades, like leaves, we’ll tumble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Adieu, short summer’s blaze, that shone to mock.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear already the funereal rumble</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of logs, as on the paving-stones they shock.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Winter will enter in my soul to dwell⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rage, hate, fear, horror, labour forced and dire!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My heart will seem, to sun that polar hell,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A dim, red, frozen block, devoid of fire.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Shuddering I hear the heavy thud of fuel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The building of a gallows sounds as good!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My spirit, like a tower, reels to the cruel</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Battering-ram in every crash of wood.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The ceaseless echoes rock me and appal.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They’re nailing up a coffin, I’ll be bound.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For whom?⁠—Last night was Summer. Here’s the Fall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There booms a farewell volley in the sound.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-autumn-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>I like the greenish light in your long eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dear: but today all things are sour to me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And naught, your hearth, your boudoir, nor your sighs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are worth the sun that glitters on the sea.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Yet love me, tender heart, as mothers cherish</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A thankless wretch. Lover or sister, be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ephemeral sweetness of the suns that perish</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or glory of the autumn swift to flee.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Brief task! The charnel yawns in hunger horrid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet let me with my head upon your knees,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Although I mourn the summer, white and torrid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Taste these last yellow rays before they freeze.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-madonna" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVII</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">To a Madonna</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Ex Voto in Spanish Style)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>I’d build, Madonna, love, for my belief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An altar in the dim crypt of my grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the darkest corner of my heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From mortal lust and mockery far apart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scoop you a niche, with gold and azure glaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where you would stand in wonderment and gaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my pure verses trellised, and all round</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In constellated rhymes of crystal bound:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with a huge tiara richly crowned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the Jealousy which rules my passion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mortal Madonna, I a cloak would fashion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barbarous, stiff, and heavy with my doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereon as in a fourm you would fill out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mould your lair. Of tears, not pearls, would be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sparkle of its rich embroidery:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your robe would be my lust, with waving flow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poising on tips, in valleys lying low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And clothing, in one kiss, coral and snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my Respect (for satin) you’ll be shod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which your white feet would humble to the clod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While prisoning their flesh with tender hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It kept their shape imprinted like a mould.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If for a footstool to support your shoon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all my art, I could not get the moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d throw the serpent, that devours my vitals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under your trampling heels for his requitals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Victorious queen, to spurn, bruise, and belittle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That monstrous worm blown-up with hate and spittle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round you my thoughts like candles should be seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around the flowered shrine of the virgins’ Queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reflected on a roof that’s painted blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And aiming all their golden eyes at you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since nought is in me that you do not stir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All will be incense, benjamin, and myrrh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And up to you, white peak, in clouds will soar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My stormy soul, in rapture, to adore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In fine, your role of Mary to perfect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mingle barbarism with respect⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of seven deadly sins, O black delight!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remorseful torturer, to show my sleight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll forge and sharpen seven deadly swords</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a callous juggler on the boards,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taking it for my target, I would dart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them deep into your streaming, sobbing heart.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="song-of-afternoon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Song of Afternoon</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Though your eyebrows’ wicked slant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give you an intriguing air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which the angels do not share</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sorceress, whose eyes enchant⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My passion, terrible yet gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all my heart I bow before you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With that devotion to adore you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That priests to sacred idols pay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Deserts and woods embalmed your hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its movements give your head the stigma</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sphinx-like secret and enigma,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both in its attitude and air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As round a censer vapours form,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About your flesh the perfumes wander.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The selfsame charms you seem to squander</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As does an evening, dark yet warm,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The strongest philtres cannot craze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As does your indolent address</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you have mastered a caress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dead corpses from their tombs to raise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your hips are amorous of your breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of your back: your languorous pose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enchants the cushions where you doze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When in their depths you make your nest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sometimes in order to appease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mysterious rages in your soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You bite and kiss without control.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then with a mocking laugh you tease</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My heart, brown beauty, tearing it:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then over it the light is strewn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of your eye, softer than the moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till with its glance my soul is lit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Underneath your satin shoes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And underneath your silken feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My joy, my fate, my genius meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To strew the pathway of my muse.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My soul is healed, restored and made complete</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By you, all colour, warmth, and light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my Siberia a bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Explosion as of tropic heat.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sisina" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Sisina</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Picture Diana, gallantly arrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ranging the woods, elated with the chase,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With flying hair and naked breasts displayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Defying fleetest horsemen with her pace.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Know you Theroigae whom blood and fire exalt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hounding a shoeless rabble to the fray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up royal stairways heading the assault,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mounting, sword in hand, to show the way?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such is Sisina. Terrible her arms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But charity restrains her killing charms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though rolling drums and scent of powder madden</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her courage⁠—laying by its pikes and spears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For those who merit, her scorched heart will sadden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And open, in its depth, a well of tears.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="praises-of-my-francisca" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LX</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">Praises of My Francisca</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Verses to a learned and devout Millener)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Upon new chords of you I sing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the new-born bud you bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From solitude, the pure heart’s Spring.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your brows should be with garlands twined,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Woman of delightful mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who our trespasses unbind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As the wonderous balm of Lethe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through thy kisses, I will breathe thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All are magnetised who see thee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When my vices, wild and stormy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From my wonted courses bore me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was You appeared before me,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Star of Oceans! you that alter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Courses, when the pilots falter⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take my heart upon your altar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cistern full of virtuous ruth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fountain of eternal youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give to dumbness speech and truth!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What was dirty, you cremated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What uneven⁠—you equated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What was weak you re-created.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Inn, on the hungry roads I tramp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, in the dark, a guiding lamp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To steer the lost one back to camp.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To my strength add strength, O sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bath, where scents and unguents meet!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anoint me for some peerless feat!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Holy water most seraphic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the lusts in which I traffic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flash your chastity ecstatic.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Bowl of gems where radiance dances.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Salt that the holy bread enhances,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sacred wine⁠—your name is Frances!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-colonial-lady" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">To a Colonial Lady</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>In scented countries by the sun caressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve known, beneath a tent of purple boughs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And palmtrees shedding slumber as they drowse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A creole lady with a charm unguessed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She’s pale, and warm, and duskily beguiling;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nobility is moulded in her neck;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slender and tall she holds herself in check,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An huntress born, sure-eyed, and quiet-smiling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Should you go, Madam, to the land of glory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the Siene or Loire, where you would merit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To ornament some mansion famed in story,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your eyes would burn in those deep-shaded parts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And breed a thousand rhymes in poets’ hearts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tamed like the negro slaves that you inherit.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="moesta-et-errabunda" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Moesta et Errabunda</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Agatha, does your heart rise up and fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far from the city’s black and sordid sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Towards a sea that’s blue as any sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And clear and deep as pure virginity?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Agatha, does your heart rise up and fly?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sea, the mighty sea, consoles our labour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What demon taught the sea with raucous verse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To choir the organ which the winds belabour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lullaby our sorrows like a nurse?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sea, the mighty sea, consoles our labour.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Train, bear me; take me, ship, to the other climes!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far, far! For here the mud is made of tears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—Does Agatha’s sad heart not say, at times,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Far from remorses, sorrows, crimes, and fears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Train, bear me; take me, ship, to other climes”?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How distant is that perfumed paradise!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where all is joy and love with azure crowned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where all one loves is truly worth the price,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hearts in pure voluptuousess are drowned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How distant is that perfumed paradise!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the green paradise of childish love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of races, songs, and kisses, and bouquets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of fiddles shrilling in the hills above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And jars of wine, and woods, and dying rays⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the green paradise of childish love,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Innocent paradise of furtive joys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it far off as India or Hong Kong?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could it be conjured by a plaintive voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or animated by a silver song⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That far off paradise of furtive joys?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-ghost" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Ghost</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Like angels fierce and tawny-eyed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back to your chamber I will glide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And noiselessly into your sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steal with the shadows of the night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And I will bring you, brown delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kisses as cold as lunar night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the caresses of a snake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Revolving in a grave. At break</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of morning in its livid hue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’d find I had bequeathed to you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An empty place as cold as stone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Others by tenderness and ruth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would reign over your life and youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I would rule by fear alone.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="autumn-sonnet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Autumn Sonnet</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Your eyes like crystal ask me, clear and mute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“In me, strange lover, what do you admire?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be lovely: hush: my heart, whom all things tire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except the candour of the primal brute,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Would hide from you the secret burning it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And its black legend written out in fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O soother of the sleep that I respire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passion I hate, and I am hurt by wit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let us love gently. In his lair laid low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ambushed in shades, Love strings his fatal bow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know his ancient arsenal complete,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Crime, horror, lunacy⁠—O my pale daisy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are we not suns in Autumn, silver-hazy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O my so white, so snow-cold Marguerite?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sorrow-of-the-moon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Sorrow of the Moon</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>More drowsy dreams the moon tonight. She rests</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a proud beauty on heaped cushions pressing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With light and absent-minded touch caressing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before she sleeps, the contour of her breasts.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On satin-shimmering, downy avalanches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She dies from swoon to swoon in languid change,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lets her eyes on snowy visions range</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That in the azure rise like flowering branches.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When sometimes to this earth her langour calm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lets streak a stealthy tear, a pious poet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The enemy of sleep, in his cupped palm,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Takes this pale tear, of liquid opal spun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With rainbow lights, deep in his heart to stow it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far from the staring eyeballs of the Sun.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="cats" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Cats</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Sages austere and fervent lovers both,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In their ripe season, cherish cats, the pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hearths, strong, mild, and to themselves allied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In chilly stealth and sedentary sloth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Friends both to lust and learning, they frequent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silence, and love the horror darkness breeds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Erebus would have chosen them for steeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hearses, could their pride to it have bent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dreaming, the noble postures they assume</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sphinxes stretching out into the gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That seems to swoon into an endless trance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Their fertile flanks are full sparks that tingle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And particles of gold, like grains of shiingle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vaguely be-star their pupils as they glance.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-owls" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Owls</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Within the shelter of black yews</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The owls in ranks are ranged apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like foreign gods, whose eyeballs dart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red fire. They meditate and muse.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Without a stir they will remain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till, in its melancholy hour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrusting the level sun from power,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shade establishes its reign.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Their attitude instructs the sage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Content with what is near at hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To shun all motion, strife, and rage.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men, crazed with shadows that they chase,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bear, as a punishment, the brand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of having wished to change their place.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-author's-pipe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Author’s Pipe</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>I am an author’s pipe. To see me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my outlandish shape to heed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’d know my master was a dreamy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inveterate smoker of the weed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When he is loaded down with care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I like a stove will smoke and burn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein the supper they prepare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the labourer’s return.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I nurse his spirit with my charm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swaying it in a soft, uncertain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vaguely-moving azure curtain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I roll a potent cloud of balm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lull his spirit into rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cure the sorrows in his breast.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Music</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Music uplifts me like the sea and races</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Me to my distant star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through veils of mist or through ethereal spaces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I sail on it afar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With chest flung out and lungs like sails inflated</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the depth of night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I escalade the backs of waves serrated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That darkness veils from sight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I feel vibrating in me the emotions</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That storm-tossed ships must feel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fair winds and the tempests and the oceans</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Sway my exultant keel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes a vast, dead calm with glassy stare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mirrors my dumb despair.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-burial-of-an-accursed-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Burial of an Accursed Poet</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>If on a night obscure and deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some decent Christian, out of ruth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Buries behind some garbage-heap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vaunted body of your youth:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There, when the chaster stars have set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the moon her hammock slung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will the spider weave his net</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the adder hatch her young.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your cursèd head beneath the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will hear, through all the seasons then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dismal cries of wolves resound,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Old half-starved witches raising spooks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The antics of obscene old men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And black conspiracies of crooks.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fantastic-engraving" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Fantastic Engraving</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>A monstrous spectre carries on his forehead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at a rakish tilt, grotesquely horrid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A crown such as at carnivals parade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without a whip or spur he rides a jade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A phantom-like apocalyptic moke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose nostrils seem with rabid froth to smoke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across unbounded space the couple moves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spurning infinity with reckless hooves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The horseman waves a sword that lights the gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of namless crowds he tramples to their doom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, like a prince his mansion, goes inspecting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The graveyard, which, no skyline intersecting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Contains, beneath a sun that’s white and bleak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peoples of history, modern and antique.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-joyous-dead" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Joyous Dead</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>In a fat, greasy soil, that’s full of snails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll dig a grave deep down, where I may sleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spreading my bones at ease, to drowse in deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oblivion, as a shark within the wave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I hate all tombs, and testaments, and wills:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I want no human tears; I’d like it more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ravens could attack me with their bills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To broach my carcase of its living gore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O worms! black friends, who cannot hear or see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A free and joyous corpse behold in me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You philisophic souls, corruption-bred,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Plough through my ruins! eat your merry way!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if there are yet further torments, say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this old soulless corpse among the dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cask-of-hate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Cask of Hate</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The Cask of the pale Danaids is Hate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vainly Revenge, with red strong arms employed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Precipitates her buckets, in a spate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of blood and tears, to feed the empty void.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Fiend bores secret holes to these abysms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By which a thousand years of sweat and strain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Escape, though she’d revive their organisms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In order just to bleed them once again.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hate is a drunkard in a tavern staying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who feels his thirst born of its very cure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Lerna’s hydra, multiplied by slaying.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gay drinkkers of their conqueror are sure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Hate is doomed to a sad fate, unable</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ever to fall and snore beneath the table.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cracked-bell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Cracked Bell</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>It’s sweet and bitter, of a winter night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear, beside the crackling, smoking log,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far memories prepare themselves for flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To carillons that sound amid the fog.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Happy’s the bell whose vigorous throat on high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In spite of time, is sound and still unspent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hurl his faithful and religious cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like an old soldier watching in his tent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My soul is cracked, and when amidst its care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It tries with song to fill the frosty air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes, its voice seems like the feeble croak</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A wounded soldier makes, lost in the smoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath a pile of dead, in bloody mire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trying, with fearful efforts, to expire.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spleen-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Spleen</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The Month of Rains, incensed at life, outpours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of her urn, a dark chill, like a penance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the graveyards and their wan, grey tenants</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And folk in foggy suburbs out of doors.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My cat seeks out a litter on the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twitching her scrawny body flecked with mange.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul of some old poet seems to range</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gutter, with a chill phantasmal sound.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The big bell tolls: damp hearth-logs seem to mock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whistling, the sniffle-snuffle of the clock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While in the play of odours stale with must,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Reminders of a dropsical old crone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The knave of hearts and queen of spades alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Darkly discuss a passion turned to dust.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spleen-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Spleen</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>I have more memories than had I seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ten centuries. A huge chest that has been</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stuffed full of writs, bills, verses, balance-sheets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With golden curls wrapt up in old receipts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And love-letters⁠—hides less than my sad brain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pyramid, a vault that must contain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More corpses than the public charnel stores.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I am a cemetery the moon abhors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, like remorses, the long worms that trail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Always the dearest of my dead assail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am a boudoir full of faded roses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where many an old outmoded dress reposes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And faded pastels and pale Bouchers only</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breathe a scent-flask, long-opened and left lonely⁠ ⁠…</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nothing can match those limping days for length</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where under snows of years, grown vast in strength,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boredom (of listlessness the pale abortion)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of immortality takes the proportion!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—From henceforth, living matter, you are nought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But stone surronded by a dreadful thought:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lost in some dim Sahara, an old Sphinx,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of whom the world we live in never thinks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lost on the map, it is its surly way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only to sing in sunset’s fading ray.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spleen-3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Spleen</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>I’m like the King of some damp, rainy clime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grown impotent and old before my time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who scorns the bows and scrapings of his teachers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bores himself with hounds and all such creatures.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naught can amuse him, falcon, steed, or chase:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, not the mortal plight of his whole race</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dying before his balcony. The tune,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sung to this tyrant by his pet buffoon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Irks him. His couch seems far more like a grave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even the girls, for whom all kings seem brave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can think no toilet up, nor shameless rig,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To draw a smirk from this funereal prig.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sage who makes him gold, could never find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The baser element that rots his mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even those blood-baths the old Romans knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And later thugs have imitated too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can’t warm this skeleton to deeds of slaughter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose only blood is Lethe’s cold, green water.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spleen-4" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Spleen</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>When the cold heavy sky weighs like a lid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On spirits whom eternal boredom grips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wide ring of the horizon’s hid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In daytime darker than the night’s eclipse:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When the world seems a dungeon, damp and small,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where hope flies like a bat, in circles reeling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beating his timid wings against the wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dashing out his brains against the ceiling:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When trawling rains have made their steel-grey fibres</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look like the grilles of some tremendous jail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a whole nation of disgusting spiders</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over our brains their dusty cobwebs trail:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Suddenly bells are fiercely clanged about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hurl a fearsome howl into the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like spirits from their country hunted out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who’ve nothing else to do but shriek and cry⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then long processions without fifes or drums</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wind slowly through my soul. Hope, weeping, bows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To conquest. And atrocious Anguish comes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To paint his black flag on my drooping brows.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="obsession" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Obsession</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>You forests, like cathedrals, are my dread:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You roar like organs. Our curst hearts, like cells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where death forever rattles on the bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Echo your <i xml:lang="la">de Profundis</i> as it swells.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My spirit hates you, Ocean! sees, and loathes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its tumults in your own. Of men defeated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bitter laugh, that’s full of sobs and oaths.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is in your own tremendously repeated.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How you would please me, Night! without your stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which speak a foreign dialect, that jars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On one who seeks the void, the black, the bare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet even your darkest shade a canvas forms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereon my eye must multiply in swarms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Familiar looks of shapes no longer there.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-thirst-for-the-void" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Thirst for the Void</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>My soul, you used to love the battle’s rumble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hope, whose sharp spur once kindled you like flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will mount on you no more. Rest, without shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old charger, since at every step you stumble.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sleep now the sleep of butes, proud heart: be humble.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O broken raider, for you outworn mettle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love has no joys, no fight is worth disputing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Farewell to all the trumpeting and fluting!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pleasure, have done, when brooding shadows settle,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The blooms of spring are vanquished by the nettle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As snows devour stiff corpses in their welter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time wolfs my soul in, minute after minute.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve seen the world and everything that’s in it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I no longer seek in it for shelter;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come, Avalanche! and sweep me helter-skelter.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="alchemy-of-sorrow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Alchemy of Sorrow</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>One puts all nature into mourning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One lights her like a flaring sun⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What whispers “Burial” to the one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cries to the other, “Life and Morning”.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The unknown Hermes who assists</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The role of Midas to reverse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And makes me by a subtle curse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The saddest of all alchemists⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By him, my paradise to hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gold to slag, is changed too well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The clouds are winding-sheets, and I,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Bidding some dear-loved corpse farewell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the shore-line of the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Erect my vast sarcophagi.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sympathetic-horror" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Sympathetic Horror</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>From livid skies that, without end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As stormy as your future roll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What thoughts into your empty soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Answer me, libertine!) descend?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>—Insatiable yet for all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That turns on darkness, doom, or dice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll not, like Ovid, mourn my fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chased from the Latin paradise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Skies, torn like seacoasts by the storm!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In you I see my pride take form,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the huge clouds that rush in streams</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are the black hearses of my dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your red rays reflect the hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In which my heart is pleased to dwell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="heautontimoroumenos" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIII</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title" xml:lang="el-Latn">Heautontimoroumenos</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="dedication">
						<b>To <abbr class="name">J. G. F.</abbr></b>
					</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>I’ll strike you, but without the least</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anger⁠—as butchers poll an ox,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or Moses, when he struck the rocks⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That from your eyelid thus released,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The lymph of suffering may brim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To slake my desert of its drought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So my desire, by hope made stout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon you salty tears may swim,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like a proud ship, far out from shore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within my heart, which they’ll confound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With drunken joy, your sobs will sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like drums that beat a charge in war.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Am I not a faulty chord</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all this symphony divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thanks to the irony malign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That shakes and cuts me like a sword?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It’s in my voice, the raucous jade!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s in my blood’s black venom too!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am the looking-glass, wherethrough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Megera sees herself portrayed!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I am the wound, and yet the blade!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smack, and yet the cheek that takes it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The limb, and yet the wheel that breaks it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The torturer, and he who’s flayed!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One of the sort whom all revile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Vampire, my own blood I quaff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Condemned to an eternal laugh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because I know not how to smile.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-irremediable" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Irremediable</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="the-irremediable-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>A Form, Idea, or Essence, chased</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out of the azure sky, and shot</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into a leaden Styx where not</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A star can pierce the muddy waste:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>An angel, rash explorer, who,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tempted by love of strange deformity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Caught in a nightmare of enormity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fights like a swimmer, wrestling through</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A monstrous whorl of eddying spume,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In deathly anguish, from him flinging</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The wave that, like an idiot singing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Goes pirouetting through the gloom:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A wretch enchanted, who, to flee</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A den of serpents, gropes about</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In desperation vain, without</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Discovering a match or key:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A damnèd soul, who, with no lamp,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stands by a gulf, whose humid scent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Betrays the depth of the descent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of endless stairs without a ramp,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Where slimy monsters watch the track</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose eyeballs phosphoresce and glow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only to make the night more black</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And nought except themselves to show:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A vessel that the pole betrays,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Caught in a crystal trap all round,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And seeking by what fatal sound</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It ever entered such a maze:⁠—</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Clear emblems! measuring the level</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of irremediable dooms,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which make us see how well the Devil</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Performs whatever he presumes!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-irremediable-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Strange tête-à-tête! the heart, its own</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mirror, its own confession hears!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Deep well where Truth is trembling shown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And like a livid star appears,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Ironic beacon and infernal</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Torch of satanic grace, but still</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sole glory and relief eternal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>—Conscience that operates in Ill!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-clock" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Clock</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The Clock, calm evil god, that makes us shiver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With threatening finger warns us each apart:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<em>Remember!</em> Soon the vibrant woes will quiver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like arrows in a target, in your heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To the horizon Pleasure will take flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As flits a vaporous sylphide to the wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each instant gnaws a crumb of the delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That for his season every mortal brings.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Three thousand times and more, each hour, the second</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whispers ‘<em>Remember!</em>‘ Like an insect shrill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The present chirps, ‘With Nevermore I’m reckoned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve pumped your lifeblood with my loathsome bill.’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<em>Remember!</em>
						<i xml:lang="fr">Souviens-toi!</i>
						<i xml:lang="la">Esto Memor!</i>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My brazen windpipe speaks in every tongue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each moment, foolish mortal, is like ore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From which the precious metal must be wrung.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><em>Remember</em>. Time the gamester (it’s the law)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wins always, without cheating. Daylight wanes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Night deepens. The abyss with gulfy maw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thirsts on unsated, while the hour-glass drains.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sooner or later, now, the time must be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Hazard, Virtue (your still-virgin mate),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Repentance, (your last refuge), or all three⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will tell you, ‘Die, old Coward. It’s too late!’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
