<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Pièces Diverses</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-2-4" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Pièces Diverses</h3>
			<article id="the-voice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Voice</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>My cot was next the library, a Babel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where fiction jostled science, myth and fable.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greek dust with Roman ash there met the sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was but a folio in height</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When two Voices addressed me. “Earth’s a cake,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said one, “and full of sweetness. I can make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your appetite to its proportions equal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever and forever without sequel.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another said “Come, rove in dreams, with me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Past knowledge, thought or possibility.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That voice sang like the wind along the shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, though caressing, frightened me the more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I answered “O sweet Voice!” and from that date</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could never name my sorrow or my fate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind the giant scenery of this life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see strange worlds: with my own self at strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ecstatic victim of my second sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I trail huge snakes, that at my ankles bite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like an ancient prophet, from that time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve loved the desert, found the sea sublime;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve wept at festivals and laughed at wakes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found in sourest wines a sweet that slakes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Falsehoods for facts I love to swallow whole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And often fall, star-gazing, in a hole.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the Voice cheers⁠—“Keep dreaming. It’s a rule</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No sage can dream such beauty as a fool.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-ransom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Ransom</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Man, for his ransom, has two fields,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two fields of tufa, deep and rich,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which he must duly delve and ditch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His reason is the hoe he wields.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In order to extort one rose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or to produce a few poor ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has to squander showers of tears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In watering the seeds he sows.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One field is Art, the other Love;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And both must for his favour bloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the strict Judge appears above</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the dreadful day of doom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Man’s granges must be filled to burst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With crops and flowers, whose form and shade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must win the angels’ suffrage first</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before his ransom can be paid.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-girl-from-malabar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">To a Girl from Malabar</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Your feet are finer than your hands, and bigger</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your haunch than plumpest white ones are. Your figure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is to a pensive artist dear and fresh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your velvet eyes are darker than your flesh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hot blue lands, where your God gave you being,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your task, lighting your master’s pipe, and seeing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The jars well filled with lymph, the flasks with scent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or switching the mosquitoes⁠—there you went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When dawn sang through the rustling planes, to buy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plantains or pineapples from the nearby</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bazaar. All day, at will, barefoot you passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Humming old unknown tunes: and when at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun went down, bright red, across the flat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You flung your body on the wicker mat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And full of humming birds, your floating dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was gay and flowery as you always seem.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How, happy child, did you come here to France,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This overpeopled land, by what mischance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When to your tamarinds you bade adieu</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confiding in the sailors of the crew?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now half-clothed in muslin frail and thin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While frost and sleet assail your shivering skin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With brutal corsets prisoning you fast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How you must long for the old, carefree past!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now you must glean your dinners from the mud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sell the perfumes of your flesh and blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In our foul mists, with pensive eye still straying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To catch a glimpse of phantom palm trees swaying.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
