<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Les Fleurs du Mal</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-1-4" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Les Fleurs du Mal</h3>
			<article id="destruction" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Destruction</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Always the Demon fidgets here beside me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swims around, impalpable as air:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I drink him, feel him burn the lungs inside me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With endless evil longings and despair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sometimes, knowing my love of Art, he uses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seductive forms of women: and has thus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With specious, hypocritical excuses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Accustomed me to philtres infamous.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Leading me wayworn into wastes untrod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of boundless Boredom, out of sight of God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Using all baits to compass my abduction,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Into my eyes, confused and full of woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soiled clothes and bleeding gashes he will throw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the grim regalia of Destruction.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-martyr" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CX</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">The Martyr</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Drawing by an Unknown Master)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Amongst gilt fabrics, flasks of scent and wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rich furniture, white marble, precious moulds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fine paintings, and rich, perfumed robes that shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swirled into sumptuous folds,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In a warm room, that like a hot-house stifles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dangerous and fatal breath, where lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale flowers in crystal tombs, exquisite trifles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exhaling their last sigh⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A headless corpse, cascading in a flood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hot, living blood, that soaks, with crimson stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pillow slaked and sated with blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As any field with rain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like those pale visions which the gloom aborts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which fix us in a still, hypnotic stare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The head, tricked out with gems of sorts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In its huge mass of hair,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like a ranunculous beside the bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rests on the table, empty of all thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From eyes revulsed, like twilight, seems to spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A gaze that looks at naught,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the bed the carcase, unabashed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shows, in complete abandon, without shift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret splendour that, in life, it flashed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Superbly, Nature’s gift.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A rosy stocking, freaked with clocks of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clings to one leg: a souvenir, it seems:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The garter, from twin diamonds, with the cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stare of a viper gleams.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The singular effect of solitude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of a languorous portait, with its eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Provocative as is its attitude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dark loves would advertise⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And guilty joys, with feasts of strange delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of infernal kisses, omens certain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To please the gloating angels of the Night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who swim behind each curtain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet to see her nimble strength, the risky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swerve of the rounded shoulder, and its rake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tented haunch, the figure lithe and frisky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flexed like an angry snake,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’d know that she was young. Her soul affronted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her senses stung with boredom⁠—were they bayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By packs of wandering, lost desires, and hunted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And finally betrayed?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The vengeful man, whose lust you could not sate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(In spite of much love) nor quench his fire⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did he on your dead flesh then consummate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His monstrous, last desire?⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Answer me, corpse impure! With fevered fist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim visage, did he raise you up on high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, as your silver frosty teeth he kissed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bib you his last goodbye?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Far from inquiring magistrates that sneer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far from this world of raillery and riot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleep peacefully, strange creature, on your bier,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of mystery and quiet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your lover roams the world. Your deathless shape</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watches his sleep and hears each indrawn breath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more than you can he ever escape</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From constancy till death!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="damned-women-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Damned Women</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Like pensive cattle lying on the sand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They scan the far horizon of the ocean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foot seeking foot, hand magnetising hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sweet or bitter tremors of emotion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some with their hearts absorbed in confidences,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep in the woods, where streamlets chatter free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spell the loved names of childish, timid fancies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And carve the green wood of the fresh, young tree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Others, like sisters wander, slow, and grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through craggy haunts of ghostly emanations,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where once Saint Anthony was wont to brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The purple-breasted pride of his temptations.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some by the light of resin-scented torches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the dumb hush of caverns seek their shrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invoking Bacchus, killer of remorses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To liven their delirium with wine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Others who deal with scapulars and hoods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hiding the whiplash under their long train,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mingle, on lonely nights in sombre woods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The foam of pleasure with the tears of pain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O demons, monsters, virgins, martyrs, you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who trample base reality in scorn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whether as nuns or satyrs you pursue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The infinite, with cries or tears forlorn,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You, whom my soul has tracked to lairs infernal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor sisterhood, I pity and adore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For your despairing griefs, your thirst eternal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And love that floods your hearts for evermore!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-two-good-sisters" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Two Good Sisters</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Debauchery and Death are pleasant twins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lavish with their charms, a buxom pair!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the rags that clothe their virgin skins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their wombs, though still in labour, never bear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For the curst poet, foe to married rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The friend of hell, and courtier on half-pay⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brothels and tombs reserve for such a guest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bed on which repentance never lay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Both tomb and bed, in blasphemy so fecund</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each other’s hospitality to second,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prepare grim treats, and hatch atrocious things.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Debauch, when will you bury me? When, Death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mingle your Cypress in the selfsame wreath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the infected Myrtles that she brings?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-fountain-of-blood" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Fountain of Blood</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>My blood in waves seems sometimes to be spouting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As though in rhythmic sobs a fountain swooned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear its long, low, rushing sound till, doubting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I feel myself all over for the wound.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Across the town, as in the lists of battle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It flows, transforming paving stones to isles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slaking the thirst of creatures, men, and cattle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And colouring all nature red for miles.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sometimes I’ve sought relief in precious wines</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lull in me the fear that undermines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But found they sharpened every sense the more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’ve also sought forgetfulness in lust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But love’s a bed of needles, and they thrust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give more drink to each rapacious whore.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="allegory" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Allegory</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>She is a woman of appearance fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who lets her tresses trail into her wine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love’s claws and poisons, brewed in sinks of sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fall blunted from the granite of her skin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She mocks Debauchery, Death leaves her blithe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two monsters always handy with the scythe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In their grim games, where so much beauty’s wrecked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They treat her majesty with due respect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half goddess, half sultana, without scathe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In pleasure she’s a Moslem’s steady faith.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between her open arms, filled by her breasts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all mankind with burning eyes she quests,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she blieves, this fruitless virgin-wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who’s yet so necessary to this life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That beauty of the body is a gift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sublime enough all infamy to shift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And win forgiveness. She knows naught of Hell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the Night comes, in which she is to dwell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight in the face she’ll look her deadly Fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like one new-born⁠—without remorse or hate.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="beatrice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Beatrice</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>In charred and ashen fields without a leaf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While I alone to Nature told my grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sharpened, as I went, like any dart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My thought upon the grindstone of my heart⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When by a troop of vicious demons led,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A great black cloud rushed down towards my head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As loafers at a lunatic they leered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in my face inquisitively peered.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With nods and signs, like dwarfed and apish elves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They laughed, and winked, and spoke among themselves.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“This parody of Hamlet, take his measure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And contemplate the travesty at leisure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it not sad to see the puzzled stare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The halting gait, and the dishevelled hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With which this clownish actor, on half-pay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because he is an artist in his way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attempts to interest, in the griefs he sings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eagles, and crickets, flowers, and running springs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And even us, the authors of his woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Howling his sorrows as a public show?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I could have dominated with my pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That horde of demons and the taunts they cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just by the mere aversion of my face⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had I not seen, amongst that evil race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A crime that did not even daze the sun!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Queen of my heart, the peerless, only one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laughing with them to see my dark distress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And giving them, at times, some lewd caress.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="voyage-to-cytherea" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Voyage to Cytherea</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>My heart, a bird, seemed joyfully to fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And round the rigging cruised with nimble gyre.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vessel rolled beneath the cloudless sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a white angel, drunk with solar fire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What is that sad, black island like a pall?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, Cytherea, famed in many a book,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Eldorado of old-stagers. Look:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s but a damned poor country after all!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Isle of sweet secrets and heart-feasting fire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of antique Venus the majestic ghost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rolls like a storm of fragrance from your coast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filling our souls with langour and desire!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Isle of green myrtles, where each flower uncloses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adored by nations till the end of time:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sighs of adoring hearts, like incense, climb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pour their perfume over sheaves of roses,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or groves of turtles in an endless coo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But no! it was a waste where nothing grows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Torn only by the raucous cries of crows:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet there a curious object rose in view.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This was no temple hid in bosky trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the young priestess, amorous of flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom secretly a loving flame devours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walks with her robe half-open to the breeze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For as we moved inshore to coast the shallows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And our white canvas scared the crows to fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a tall cypress, blackened on the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We saw it was a gaunt three-forking gallows.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fierce birds, perched on their meal, began to slash</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rip with rage a rotten corpse that swung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each screwed and chiselled with its beak among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crisp and bleeding crannies of the hash.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His eyes were holes: from open stomach direly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His heavy tripes cascaded to his thighs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gorged with such ghastly dainties to the eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His torturers had gelded him entirely.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath, some jealous prowling quadrupeds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With lifted muzzles, for the leavings scrambled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The largest seemed, as in the midst he gambolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An executioner among his aides.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Native of Cytherea’s cloudless clime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In silent suffering you paid the price,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And expiated ancient cults of vice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With generations of forbidden crime.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ridiculous hanged man! Your griefs I know.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I felt, to see you swing above the heath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like nausea slowly rising to my teeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bilious stream of ancient human woe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Poor devil, dear to memory! before me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I seemed to feel each talon, fang, and beak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the stinking crows and panthers sleek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That in my lifetime ever chewed and tore me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sky was charming and the sea unclouded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all was black and bloody to my mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in a dismal winding-sheet entwined,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart was in this allegory shrouded.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A gallows where my image hung apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was all I found on Venus’ isle of sighs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O God, give me the strength to scrutinise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without disgust, my body and my heart!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="love-and-the-skull" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVII</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">Love and the Skull</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Old Tail-piece)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>With bold and insolent grimace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love laughingly bestrides</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bare skull of the Human Race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, as enthroned he rides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blows bubbles from his rosy cheek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which soar into the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if, beyond the blue, to seek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The other worlds on high.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They ride with wonderous verve at first,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reflect the sunny beams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then spit their flimsy souls, to burst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fade like golden dreams.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear the skull at each renewal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Expostulate aghast⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“This game, ridiculous and cruel⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When will it end at last?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what your cruel mouthpiece drains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scatters, sud by sud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Monstrous Assassin! is my brains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My substance, and my blood.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
