<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Nouvelles Fleurs du Mal</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-3-1" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Nouvelles Fleurs du Mal</h3>
			<article id="midnight-enquiry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Midnight Enquiry</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The clocks strike midnight one by one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ironically to remind us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ask what profit we have won</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the day we've left behind us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Thirteenth, Friday, as it chances!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fatal date; when all is said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In spite of all we know, we've led</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The most heretical of dances.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Today we've spent blaspheming Jesus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The incontestable, sole Lord;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a base sponger at the board</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of some intolerable Croesus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have, to please the beast within us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Devil's worthy advocate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Defamed all that whose love should win us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flattered all that we should hate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The weak man, like a bullying coward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We harmed, and wrongly did despise;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We worshipped Folly, where he towered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Huge bull-horned monster, to the skies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have lain kissing stupid Matter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With great devotion to its presence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of Corruption stooped to flatter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wan, mephitic phosphorescence.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To drown our vertigo entire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And our delirium to nourish—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud priest of the immortal Lyre</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose glory it has been to flourish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rapture of funereal things—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We've eaten without appetite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unthirsting drunk of muddy springs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come, quick, my soul, blow out the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hide in shades of blackest night!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigraph-for-a-condemned-book" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Epigraph for a Condemned Book</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Dear reader, peaceful and bucolic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ingenuous, sober, hierophantic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay by this book so corybantic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Saturnine, and melancholic.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If elsewhere than in Satan's school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You learned your syntax and your grammar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay by! You'll think I rave and stammer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And am a stark, hysterical fool.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But if, not yielding to their charm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your eye can plumb the gulfs of harm—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then learn to love me, read my verses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Inquiring sufferer, who seek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your paradise, to you I speak:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pity me!…else, receive my curses!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sad-madrigal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Sad Madrigal</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="sad-madrigal-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>That you are good what does it matter?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Be sad: be beautiful! The rain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rejuvenates the flowering plain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As streams do landscapes, teardrops flatter</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your face. Your looks, by weeping, gain.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>When joy from your dejected forehead</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Has fled, your heart is in the power</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of torment, and, to make you cower,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The huge cloud of your past, with horrid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Black shadow, overlooms the hour,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I love you most: and when your eye</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pours water hot as blood in battle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And when, despite the fact that I</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Am nursing you, you give a cry</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like death, an agonising rattle.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Delicious hymn, profound delight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pleasure divine! I breathe with zest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sobs arising from your breast.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I think your heart must blaze the light</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of pearls that from your eyes are pressed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="sad-madrigal-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>I know your heart once more disgorges</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its old uprooted love-affairs:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And flaming with the heat of forges</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You feel the pride of vanished orgies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which makes the damned put on such airs.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But now ere yet your evil dreams</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Reflect the red flames of the Pit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While in an endless nightmare scheming</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of poison-draughts and daggers gleaming,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cold steel and powder tempt your wit:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>While yet in fear the door you answer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And see all things with vague mistrust:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Free from his grasp, O dear entrancer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And not yet partnered for a dancer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With irresistible Disgust,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>You'll never claim, both queen and slave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who only love me with affright</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the sick silence of the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And while your feelings inly rave—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To match with me in power or might.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-fang" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Fang</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Each Man who's fit to be so called</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Serpent in his heart has got,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As though upon a throne installed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who when he says "I will," says "Not."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If your gaze the gaze transfixes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O satyresses or of nixies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Fang says, "Is your duty done?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Breed brats, plant trees, perform your task,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Write verse, chip stone—the Fang will ask,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Will you be there at set of sun?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men scheme each night and hope each morning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet no man grows one moment riper</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But suffers, at each turn, the warning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the insufferable viper.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-rebel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Rebel</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>An angel from the sky swoops like an eagle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seizes the culprit's hair in his strong fist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shakes him, saying "You must know what's legal!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I am your Good Angel. I insist.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Know you must cherish, without wry grimaces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poor, deformed, blockheaded, sick, and vile:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thus unroll for Christ's triumphal paces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The carpet of your charity in style.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For such is Love! Before your heart grows dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Light up your heart from God and burn for him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is the true delight that lasts for ever."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Angel, by his love filled with more ardour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With giant fists belabours him the harder.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The damned soul always answers, "I will never."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="far-away-from-here" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Far Away from Here</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>This is the room, the sacred nest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that girl so richly dressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tranquil and ready for her guest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With one hand she fans her nipples</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elbow on the couch at rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Listening to the ponds and ripples.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This room is Dorothy's. The play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wind and water, far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fainting song and rhythmic sobs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through her reverie hums and throbs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From head to toe with greatest care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her skin is polished, to adorn her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With benjamin and oils as rare…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some flowers are swooning in a corner.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="meditation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Meditation</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Be good, my Sorrow: hush now: settle down.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You sighed for dusk, and now it comes: look there!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A denser atmosphere obscures the town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To some restoring peace, to others care.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>While the lewd multitude, like hungry beasts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By pleasure scourged (no thug so fierce as he!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go forth to seek remorse among their feasts—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come, take my hand; escape from them with me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From balconies of sky, around us yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lean the dead years in fashions that have ceased.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the depth of waters smiles Regret.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sun sinks moribund beneath an arch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a long shroud rustling from the East,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hark, Love, the gentle Night is on the march.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-gulf" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Gulf</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Wherever Pascal went, his gulf was spread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All is abyss—dream, act, desire, or word!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And often by the wind of terror stirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've felt the hair shoot upright on my head.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>High up, low down, all round, the depth descending,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The verge, the silence, the dread captor, Space.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind my nights I see God's finger trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Nightmare multiform yet never-ending.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I dread my sleep like some enormous hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of vague horror, leading to no goal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All windows bare the infinite to me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My soul, in its vertiginous endeavour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Envies the senseless void—Ah, never never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From entities or number to be free!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="complaint-of-an-icarus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Complaint of an Icarus</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Those who love whores are well-endowed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spry, and well-fed, and cheerful-spoken.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, as for me, my arms are broken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From trying to embrace a cloud.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To what two peerless stars have done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That kindle in the farthest skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I owe it that my burnt-out eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know only memories of the sun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In vain I've tried to find the pole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the equator-line of space.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know not by what burning gaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wings were molten from my soul.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By love of beauty singed, I fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet fail the honour and the bliss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give my name to the abyss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which serves me for my tomb and pall.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-lid" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Lid</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Wherever Man may go, by earth or ocean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath a sky of fire, or sun snow-cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whether to Christ or Venus his devotion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In gloomy want, or glittering with gold;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Citizen, vagabond, stamplicker, farmer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be his small brain slow-witted, quick, or sly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this strange teror he can find no armour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor look to heaven save with trembling eye.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Above, the Sky, that cellar-ceiling, stifles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lit up for comic farce, where struts and trifles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each mummer on a floor of blood and mire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Terror of rakes, the crazy hermits' hope—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath its cauldron-lid mankind must grope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never above its margin to aspire.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
