<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Révolte</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-1-5" epub:type="part">
			<header>
				<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Révolte</h3>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following Author’s Note was printed in the first edition of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="fr">Les Fleurs du Mal</i> (1857).</p>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Among the following poems, the most notorious one has already appeared in one of the principal literary reviews of Paris; it has been taken, at least by intelligent people, for what it is, a pastiche on the arguments used by ignorance and anger. Keeping the painful tast which he has set himself, the author of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="fr">Les Fleurs du Mal</i> has, like a true comedian, assumed the attitudes of sophistry and of corruption. No doubt, this candid statement will not prevent “honest” critics from ranking him among the theologians of the mob, and accusing him of being sorry that our Saviour Jesus Christ, the eternal, voluntary victim, did not play the role of a conqueror, of a destroying and equalitarian Attila. Many will doubtless utter the Pharisee’s usual thanksgiving: “I thank Thee, Lord, that I am not as this infamous poet.”</p>
			</header>
			<article id="the-denial-of-st-peter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Denial of <abbr>St.</abbr> Peter</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>What does God do with that huge storm of curses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That rises daily to the seraphim?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like some gorged tyrant, while his guts he nurses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our blasphemies are lullabies to him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Martyrs and tortured victims with their cries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compose delicious symphonies, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because, despite the blood they cost, the skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can always do with more when they give out.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jesus, remember, in the olive trees⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all simplicity you prayed afresh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To One whom your own butchers seemed to please</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hammering the nails into your flesh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To see your godhead spat on by the like</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of scullions, and of troopers, and such scum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And feel the thorns into your temples strike</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which held, of all Humanity, the sum:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To feel your body’s horrifying weight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lengthen your arms, to feel the blood and sweat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Itching your noble forehead pale with fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as a target to the world be set,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then did you dream of brilliant days of song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, the eternal promise to fulfill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You mounted on an ass and rode along,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trampling the flowers and palms beneath your feet,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When whirling whips, and full of valiant force,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The money-lenders quailed at your advance:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you, in short, were master? Did remorse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not pierce your body further than the lance?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I am quite satisfied to leave so bored</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A world, where dream and action disunite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d use the sword, to perish by the sword.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peter denied his Master?⁠ ⁠… He did right!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="abel-and-cain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Abel and Cain</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="abel-and-cain-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Race of Abel! eat, sleep, drink.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>God smiles on those that he prefers.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Cain! in swamps that stink,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crawl, and die the death of curs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Abel! your crops sprout,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And your flocks are safe and sound.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Cain! your guts howl out</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In hunger, like an ancient hound.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Abel! warm your guts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At the patriarchal fire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Cain! in caves and huts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shiver like jackals in the mire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Abel! Pullulate:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your gold too procreates its kind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Cain! Hearts hot with hate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leave all such appetites behind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Abel! grow and graze,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like woodlice that on timbers prey.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Cain! along rough ways</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lead forth your family at bay.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="abel-and-cain-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Ah! Race of Abel! your fat carrion</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Will well manure the soil it presses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Cain! One task to carry on</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Remains for you, a task that presses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Abel! Shame is nigh.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The coulter’s beaten by the sword.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Race of Cain, climb up the sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to the earth hurl down the Lord.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="litanies-of-satan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Litanies of Satan</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Wisest of Angels, whom your fate betrays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, fairest of them all, deprives of praise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Prince of exiles, who have suffered wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet, vanquished, rise from every fall more strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All-knowing lord of subterranean things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who remedy our human sufferings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To lepers and lost beggars full of lice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You teach, through love, the taste of Paradise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You who on Death, your old and sturdy wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Engendered Hope⁠—sweet folly of this life⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You give to the doomed man that calm, unbaffled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gaze that rebukes the mob around the scaffold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You know in what closed corners of the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A jealous God has hidden gems of worth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You know the deepest arsenals, where slumber</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The breeds of buried metals without number.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You whose huge hand has hidden the abyss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sleepwalkers that skirt the precipice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You who give suppleness to drunkards’ bones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When trampled down by horses on the stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You who, to make his sufferings the lighter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taught man to mix the sulphur with the nitre,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You fix your mask, accomplice full of guile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On rich men’s foreheads, pitiless and vile.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You who fill the hearts and eyes of whores</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With love of trifles and the cult of sores,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The exile’s staff, inventor’s lamp, caresser</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hanged men, and of plotters the confessor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Step-father of all those who, robbed of pardon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God drove in anger out of Eden’s garden.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Satan have pity on my long despair!</span>
				</p>
				<section id="litanies-of-satan-prayer">
					<h5 epub:type="title">Prayer</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Praise to you, Satan! in the heights you lit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And also in the deeps where now you sit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Vanquished, in Hell, and dream in hushed defiance.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O that my soul, beneath the Tree of Science</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Might rest near you, while shadowing your brows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It spreads a second Temple with its boughs.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
