<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Galanteries</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-2-2" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Galanteries</h3>
			<article id="the-fountain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Fountain</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>My darling of a sweetheart, close,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a long time, your great, tired eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keeping them in that languid pose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where pleasure took them by surprise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out in the court the fountain chatters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And does not cease by day or night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The swoon of ecstasy it flatters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In which love plunges me tonight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">Its sheaf uprears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">A myriad flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">While Phoebe sheers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Through pearl-flushed hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To rain down tears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In glittering showers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So does your flashing soul ignite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In lightnings of voluptuous bliss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rushes reckless up the height</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As though the enchanted sky to kiss;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then it relaxes, grows more fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in sad langour falls apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down an invisible incline</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the deep well of my heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">Its sheaf uprears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">A myriad flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">While Phoebe sheers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Through pearl-flushed hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To rain down tears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In glittering showers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O you whom night so beautifies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sweet unto your breast to bend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hear the water as it sighs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the ponds without an end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moon, singing water, blessed night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And trees that tremble up above—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your melancholy charms my sprite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And is the mirror of my love.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">Its sheaf uprears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">A myriad flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">While Phoebe sheers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Through pearl-flushed hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To rain down tears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In glittering showers.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="bertha's-eyes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Bertha's Eyes</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The most illustrious gaze you may despise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eyes of my child, where filters and takes flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know not what of goodness, soft as night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pour out on me your lovely shade, dear eyes!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great eyes of my dear child! arcanes adored!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You seem like magic caves where shadow darkles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, through the mass of crowded gloom, there sparkles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scintillates some richly treasured hoard.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My girl has eyes as deep, vast, and serene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As you, O night, immense, and lit like you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their fires are thoughts of Love, with faith shot through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Voluptuous, and chaste, though sparkling keen.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hymn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Hymn</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>To the most lovely, the most dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Angel, and the deathless grail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fill my heart with radiance clear—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In immortality all hail!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Into my life she flows translated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As saline breezes fill the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pours into my soul unsated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The taste of what can never die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sachet, forever fresh, perfuming</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some quiet nook of hid delight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A lone forgotten censer fuming</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In secrecy across the night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How, flawless love, with truth impart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your purity and keep it whole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O unseen grain of musk who art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The core of my eternal soul?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To the most lovely, the most dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The angel, and the deathless grail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fill my life with radiance clear—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In immortality all hail!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-monster" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Monster</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="the-monster-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Beloved, certainly you're not</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What Veuillot calls a "tenderling."</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bubbling in you, as in a pot,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dice, lust and revel have their fling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My dear old child, you're surely not</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Too fresh these days. However, dear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your tireless game of fast-and-loose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Has given you that smooth veneer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That things acquire from constant use.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It has its charms, however dear.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I do not find it growing stale—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That sap your forty summers bring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Since autumn fruits with me prevail</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over the banal flowers of spring.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No! you are never dull nor stale.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Your carcase for your age atones,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And gives particular delight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In hollows of your collar bones,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And other places out of sight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your carcase certainly atones.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A fig for those poor doting fools</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who're melon-struck and pumpkin mad,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Since I prefer your clavicules</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To those King Solomon once had.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A fig for such poor doting fools!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A blue-black helmet is your hair.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It shades your warrior's brow whereon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Both thoughts and blushes are so rare—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then sweeps backward, and is gone!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A blue black helmet is your hair.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Your eyes resemble mud and mire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whereon a flaring lantern streaks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Reflects the fard upon your cheeks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And glows with pale infernal fire.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your eyes are coloured like the mire.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>By its voluptuous disdain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your bitter lip provokes our lust.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It's Eden's apple once again,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Half is attraction, half disgust,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In its voluptuous disdain.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Your leg, so muscular and dry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Could climb volcanoes, never stop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And, spite of snow, and wind, and rain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Perform a cancan at the top.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your leg is muscular and dry.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Your burning skin is void of sweetness:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like an old soldier's it appears.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To sweat it never had the weakness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>More than your eyes could furnish tears.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And yet it has a kind of sweetness!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-monster-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Fool! You are driving to the Devil.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Willingly I would go with you</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If the momentum of your revel</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Did not exasperate me too.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fool! go, alone, then, to the Devil.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>My hip, my lung, my hams, my thigh</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Won't let me longer pay respects</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Although it often makes me sigh)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To that great Lord, as he expects.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It's very sad for ham and thigh.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Oh most sincerely do I suffer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not to accompany your freaks;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When he is flatulating sulphur</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To see you kiss him where he leaks.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O most sincerely do I suffer!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I feel so devilish annoyed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No more to serve you as a socket,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You hellish torch! Infernal rocket!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to declare my duty void;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I do feel devilish annoyed,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Since for a long, long time I love you</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Being so logical. My dream</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was of all ill to skim the cream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Place no monstrosity above you</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And own you in that line supreme.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Truly, old monster! yes, I love you.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
