<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poèmes Ajoutés à l'Édition Posthume</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-3-2" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Poèmes Ajoutés à l'Édition Posthume</h3>
			<article id="pagan-prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Pagan Prayer</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Don't stint the fires with which you flare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warm up my dull heart to delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Pleasure, torture of the sprite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Goddess, hear my fervent prayer!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Goddess, who through the eter pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flame in this subterranean hole!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raise up a chilled and stricken soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who lifts to you his peal of brass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Pleasure, always be my queen!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In flesh and velvet to be seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mask your beauty like a siren:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or else my soul with sleep environ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drained from the formless mystic wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elastic phantom! which is thine.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-moon-offended" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Moon Offended</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>O moon, to whom our fathers used to pray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From your blue home, where, odalisques of light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stars will follow you in spruce array,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old Cynthia, lantern of our dens by night,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do you see sleeping lovers on their couches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reveal the cool enamel of their teeth:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poet at his labours, how he crouches:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vipers—how they couple on the heath?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In yellow domino, with stealthy paces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you yet steal with clandestine embraces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To clasp Endymion's pale, millenial charm?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>—"I see your mother, by her mirror, buckled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By weight of years, poor child of death and harm!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Patching with art the breast at which you suckled!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-théodore-de-banville-1842" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">To Théodore de Banville, 1842</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Your hands have seized the goddess by the hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In such a grasp, so finally and fully,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One thinks of some Herculean young Bully</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flooring his mistress witha lordly air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With clear eyes radiant with precocious fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You've shown such pride in architecture fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And such a pure audacity of line—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One knows to what your manhood will aspire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Poet! Our blood, through every pore outpressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Escapes from us as if the Centaur's vest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made a funereal rill of every vein;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One thinks that vest was dyed in vengeful spittle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the two snakes that Hercules, when little,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throttled in his two fists till they were slain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
