<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Tableaux Parisiens</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-1-2" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Tableaux Parisiens</h3>
			<article id="the-landscape" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Landscape</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>More chasteness to my eclogues it would give,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sky-high, like old astrologers to live,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A neighbour of the belfries: and to hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their solemn hymns along the winds career.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High in my attic, chin in hand, I’d swing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And watch the workshops as they roar and sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The city’s masts⁠—each steeple, tower, and flue⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And skies that bring eternity to view.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet, through the mist, to see illumed again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stars through the azure, lamps behind the pane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rivers of carbon irrigate the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the pale moon pour magic from on high.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d watch three seasons passing by, and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When winter came with dreary snows, I’d pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself between closed shutters, bolts, and doors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And build my fairy palaces indoors.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A dream of blue horizons I would garble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With thoughts of fountains weeping on to marble,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of gardens, kisses, birds that ceaseless sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the Idyll holds of childhood’s spring.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The riots, brawling past my window-pane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From off my desk would not divert my brain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because I would be plunged in pleasure still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conjuring up the Springtime with my will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And forcing sunshine from my heart to form,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of burning thoughts, an atmosphere that’s warm.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-sun" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Sun</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Along the outskirts where, close-sheltering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hid lusts, delapidated shutters swing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the sun strikes, redoubling waves of heat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On town, and field, and roof, and dusty street⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I prowl to air my prowess and kill time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stalking, in likely nooks, the odds of rhyme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tripping on words like cobbles as I go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bumping into lines dreamed long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This all-providing Sire, foe to chloroses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wakes verses in the fields as well as roses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Evaporates one’s cares into the breeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filling with honey brains and hives of bees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rejuvenating those who go on crutches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bringing youthful joy to all he touches,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Life to those precious harvests he imparts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That grow and ripen in our deathless hearts.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Poet-like, through the town he seems to smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ennobling fate for all that is most vile;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And king-like, without servants or display,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through hospitals and mansions makes his way.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-red-haired-beggar-girl" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Red-Haired Beggar Girl</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>White girl with flame-red hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose garments, here and there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give poverty to view,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And beauty too.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To me, poor puny poet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your body, as you show it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With freckles on your arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has yet its charms.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You wear with prouder mien</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than in Romance a queen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her velvet buskins could⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your clogs of wood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In place of tatters short</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let some rich robe of court</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swirl with its silken wheels</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">After your heels:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In place of stockings holed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dagger made of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To light the lecher’s eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flash on your thigh:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let ribbons slip their bows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for our sins disclose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A breast whose radiance vies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even with your eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To show them further charms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let them implore your arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And these, rebuking, humble</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fingers that fumble</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With proferred pearls aglow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sonnets of Belleau,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, fettered by your beauty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They yield in duty.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Riffraff of scullion-rhymers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would dedicate their primers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the stairs to view</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Only your shoe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Each page-boy lucky-starred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each marquis, each Ronsard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would hang about your bower</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To while an hour.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’d count, among your blisses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than lilies far more kisses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And boast, among your flames,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some royal names.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet now your beauty begs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For scraps on floors, and dregs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Else destined to the gutter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As bread and butter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You eye, with longing tense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cheap gauds for thirty cents,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, pardon me, these days</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I cannot raise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No scent, or pearl, or stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But nothing save your own</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thin nudity for dower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pass on, my flower!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-swan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIX</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">The Swan</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="dedication">
						<b>To Victor Hugo</b>
					</p>
				</header>
				<section id="the-swan-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Andromanche!⁠—This shallow stream, the brief</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mirror you once so grandly overcharged</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With your vast majesty of widowed grief,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This lying Simoïs your tears enlarged,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Evoked your name, and made me think of you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I was crossing the new Carrousel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>—Old Paris is no more (cities renew,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Quicker than human hearts, their changing spell).</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In mind I see that camp of huts, the muddle</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of rough-hewn roofs and leaning shafts for miles,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The grass, green logs stagnating in the puddle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where bric-a-brac lay glittering in piles.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Once a menagerie parked there. And there</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It chanced one morning, when from slumber freed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Labour stands up, and Transport through still air</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rumbles its sombre hurricane of speed⁠—</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A swan escaped its cage: and as its feet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With finny palms on the harsh pavement scraped,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Trailing white plumage on the stony street,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the dry gutter for fresh water gaped.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Nervously bathing in the dust, in wonder</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It asked, remembering its native stream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“When will the rain come down? When roll the thunder?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see it now, strange myth and fatal theme!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Sometimes, like Ovid’s wretch, towards the sky</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Ironically blue with cruel smile)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its neck, convulsive, reared its head on high</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As though it were its Maker to revile.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-swan-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Paris has changed, but in my grief no change.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>New palaces and scaffoldings and blocks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To me, are allegories, nothing strange.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My memories are heavier than rocks.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Passing the Louvre, one image makes me sad:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That swan, like other exiles that we knew,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grandly absurd, with gestures of the mad,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gnawed by one craving!⁠—Then I think of you,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Who fell from your great husband’s arms, to be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A beast of freight for Pyrrhus, and for life,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bowed by an empty tomb in ecstacy⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Great Hector’s widow! Helenus’s wife!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I think, too, of the starved and phthisic negress</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tramping the mud, who seeks, with haggard eye,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The palms of Africa, and for some egress</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out of this great black wall of foggy sky:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Of those who’ve lost what they cannot recover:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of those who slake with tears their lonely hours</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And milk the she-wolf, Sorrow, for their mother:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And skinny orphans withering like flowers.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>So in the forest of my soul’s exile,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Remembrance winds his horn as on he rides.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I think of sailors stranded on an isle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Captives, and slaves⁠—and many more besides.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-seven-old-men" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XC</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">The Seven Old Men</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="dedication">
						<b>To Victor Hugo</b>
					</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Ant-seething city, city full of dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where ghosts by daylight tug the passer’s sleeve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mystery, like sap, through all its conduit-streams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quickens the dread Colossus that they weave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One early morning, in the street’s sad mud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose houses, by the fog increased in height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed wharves along a riverside in flood:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When with a scene to match the actor’s plight,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Foul yellow mist had filled the whole of space:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steeling my nerves to play a hero’s part,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I coaxed my weary soul with me to pace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The backstreets shaken by each lumbering cart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A wretch appeared whose tattered, yellow clothing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Matching the colour of the raining skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could make it shower down alms⁠—but for the loathing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Malevolence that glittered in his eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The pupils of his eyes, with bile injected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed with their glance to make the frost more raw.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stiff as a sword, his long red beard projected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like that of Judas, level with his jaw.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He was not bent, but broken, with the spine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forming a sharp right-angle to the straight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that his stick, to finish the design,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gave him the stature and the crazy gait</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of a three-footed Jew, or crippled hound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He plunged his soles into the slush as though</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To crush the dead; and to the world around</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed less of an indifferent than a foe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His image followed him, (back, stick, and beard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In nothing differed) spawned from the same hole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A centenarian twin. Both spectres steered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the same gait to the same unknown goal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To what foul plot was I exposed? of what</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Humiliating hazard made the jeer?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For seven times, (I counted) was begot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This sinister, self multiplying fear!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let him mark well who laughs at my despair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With no fraternal shudder in reply⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those seven loathsome monsters had the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though rotting through, of what can never die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Disgusting Phoenix, his own sire and father!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could I have watched an eight instalment spawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ironic, fateful, grim⁠—nor perished rather?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But from that hellish cortege I’d withdrawn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perplexed as drunkards when their sight is doubled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I locked my room, sick, fevered, chilled with fright:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all my spirit sorely hurt and troubled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By so ridiculous yet strange a sight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Vainly my reason for the helm was striving:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tempest of my efforts made a scorn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul like a dismasted wreck went driving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over a monstrous sea without a bourn.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-little-old-women" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCI</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">The Little Old Women</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="dedication">
						<b>To Victor Hugo</b>
					</p>
				</header>
				<section id="the-little-old-women-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>In sinuous folds of cities old and grim,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where all things, even horror, turn to grace,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I follow, in obedience to my whim,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Strange, feeble, charming creatures round the place.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>These crooked freaks were women in their pride,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fair Eponine or Laïs! Humped and bent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Love them! Because they still have souls inside.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Under their draughty skirts in tatters rent,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>They crawl: a vicious wind their carrion rides;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the deep roar of traffic see them cower,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pressing like precious relics to their sides</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some satchel stitched with mottoes or a flower.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>They trot like marionettes along the level,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or drag themselves like wounded deer, poor crones!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or dance, against their will, as if the devil</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were swinging in the belfry of their bones.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Cracked though they are, their eyes are sharp as drills</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And shine, like pools of water in the night⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The eyes of little girls whom wonder thrills</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To laugh at all that sparkles and is bright.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The coffins of old women very often</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are near as small as those of children are.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wise Death, who makes a symbol of a coffin</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Displays a taste both charming and bizarre.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And when I track some feeble phantom fleeing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through Paris’s immense ant-swarming Babel,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I always think that such a fragile being</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is moving softly to another cradle.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Unless, sometimes, in geometric mood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To see the strange deformities they offer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I muse how often he who saws the wood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Must change the shape and outline of the coffer.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Those eyes are wells a million teardrops feed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crucibles spangled by a cooling ore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Invincible in charm to all that breed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Austere Misfortune suckled with her lore.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-little-old-women-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Vestal whom old Frascati could enamour:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thalia’s nun, whose name was only known</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To her dead prompter: madcap full of glamour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whom Tivoli once sheltered as its own⁠—</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>They all elate me. But of these a few,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of sorrow having made a honeyed leaven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Say to Devotion, “Lend me wings anew,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O powerful Hippogriff, and fly to heaven.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>One for her fatherland a martyr: one</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By her own husband wronged beyond belief:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And one a pierced Madonna through her son⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They all could make a river with their grief.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-little-old-women-3">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Yes, I have followed them, time and again!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One, I recall, when sunset, like a heart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bled through the sky from wounds of ruddy stain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pensively sat upon a seat apart,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>To listen to the music, rich in metal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That’s played by bands of soldiers in the parks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On golden, soul-reviving eyes, to fettle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From meek civilian hearts, heroic sparks.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This one was straight and stiff, in carriage regal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She breathed the warrior-music through her teeth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Opened her eye like that of an old eagle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bared a forehead moulded for a wreath.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-little-old-women-4">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Thus, then, you journey, uncomplaining, stoic</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Across the strife of modern cities flung,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sad mothers, courtesans, or saints heroic,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose names of old were heard on every tongue,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>You once were grace, and you were glory once.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>None know you now. Derisory advances</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some drunkard makes you, mixed with worse affronts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And on your heels a child-tormentor prances.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But I who watch you tenderly: and measure</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With anxious eye, your weak unsteady gait</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As would a father⁠—get a secret pleasure</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On your account, as on your steps I wait.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I see your passionate and virgin crazes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sombre or bright, I see your vanished prime;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My soul, resplendent with your virtue, blazes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And revels in your vices and your crimes.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Poor wrecks! My family! Kindred in mind, you</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Receive from me each day my last addresses.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eighty-year Eves, will yet tomorrow find you</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On whom the claw of God so fiercely presses?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-blind" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Blind</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>My soul, survey them, dreadful as they seem.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like marionettes, ridiculous they stare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strange as somnabulists that, in their dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dart shadowy orbs around we know not where.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Their eyes, from which the heavenly spark has flown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remain uplifted, as in distant quest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skyward: but never on the paving stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do they pore dreamingly or come to rest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They traverse thus the illimitable Dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twin of eternal Silence. While the City</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May sing around us, bellow, laugh, or bark⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By pleasure blinded even to horror, I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too, drag my way, but, more a thing of pity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ask what the Blind are seeking there on high.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-passer-by" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">A Passer-By</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The deafening street roared on. Full, slim, and grand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mourning and majestic grief, passed down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A woman, lifting with a stately hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swaying the black borders of her gown;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Noble and swift, her leg with statues matching;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I drank, convulsed, out of her pensive eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A livid sky where hurricanes were hatching,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweetness that charms, and joy that makes one die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A lightning-flash⁠—then darkness! Fleeting chance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose look was my rebirth⁠—a single glance!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through endless time shall I not meet with you?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Far off! too late! or never!⁠—I not knowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who you may be, nor you where I am going⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You, whom I might have loved, who know it too!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-skeleton-navvy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Skeleton Navvy</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<section id="the-skeleton-navvy-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Quaint anatomic plates are sold</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Along the quays in third-hand stalls</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where tomes cadaverous and old</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Slumber like mummies in their palls.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In them the craftsman’s skill combines</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With expert knowledge in a way</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That beautifies these chill designs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Although the subject’s far from gay.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>One notes that, consummating these</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mysterious horrors, God knows how,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Skeletons and anatomies</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Peel off their skins to delve and plough.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-skeleton-navvy-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Navvies, funereal and resigned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the tough ground with which you tussle</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all the effort that can find</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Filleted spine or skinless muscle⁠—</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O grave-snatched convicts, say what strange</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Harvest you hope from such a soil</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And who the farmer is whose grange</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You would replenish with this toil.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Mean you to show (O evil-starred</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Exponents of too stark a doom)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The promised sleep may yet be barred,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even from us, beyond the tomb;</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>That even extinction may turn traitor,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Death itself, can be a lie;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that perhaps, sooner or later,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Forever, when we come to die,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In some strange country, without wages,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On stubborn outcrops delving holes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We’ll push a shovel through the ages</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beneath our flayed and blinding soles?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="evening-twilight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Evening Twilight</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Delightful evening, partner of the crook,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steals in, wolf-padded, like a complice: look:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heaven, like a garret, closes to the day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Man, impatient, turns a beast of prey.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet evening, loved by those whose arms can tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without a lie, “Today we’ve laboured well:”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet evening, it is she who brings relief</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To men with souls devoured by one fierce grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obstinant thinkers drowsy in the head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And toil-bent workmen groping to their bed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But insalubrious demons of the airs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like business people, wake to their affairs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, flying, knock, like bats, on walls and shutters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now Prostitution lights up in the gutters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the glimmering jets the wind torments.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a huge ant-hive it unseals its vents.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On every side it weaves its hidden tracks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like enemies preparing night-attacks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It squirms within the City’s breast of mire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A worm that steals the food that men desire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One hears the kitchens hissing here and there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Operas squealing, orchestras ablare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cheap tables d’hôte, where gaming lights the eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fill up with whores, and sharpers, their allies:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thieves, whose office knows no truce nor rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will shortly now start working, too, with zest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gently unhinging doors and forcing tills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To live some days and buy their sweethearts frills.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Collect yourself, my soul, in this grave hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shut your ears against the din and stour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is the hour when sick men’s pains increase.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death grips them by the throat, and soon they cease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their destined task, to find the common pit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ward is filled with sighings. Out of it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not all return the scented soup to taste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warm at the hearthside, by some loved-one placed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But then how few among them can recall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joys of the hearth, or ever lived at all!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-gamblers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Gamblers</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>In faded armchairs, harlots of past years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale, with false eyebrows, wheedling, fatal eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And weird, affected airs, clink from thin ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A feeble sound, where tin with crystal vies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Round the green tables, faces without lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lips without colour, jaws their teeth surviving,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fingers which a hellish fever grips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Convulsively in breasts and pockets diving</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Under the dirty ceiling, lustres flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chandeliers, that blaze without remittance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On shady brows of poets dear to fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who come to waste their sorely-sweated pittance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such was the picture, in nocturnal dreaming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw unfurled to my clairvoyant eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that grim vault, one form on elbows leaning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unspeaking, cold, and envious⁠—was I!⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes! envying, for their all-tenacious passion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These raddled tarts in their funereal glee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who trafficked there, in such a merry fashion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dead virtue and lost beauty on the spree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My heart was chilled with fear at envying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wretches who, headlong, rush to be destroyed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, drunk with their own blood, seek anything⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hell, death, or torture⁠—rather than the Void!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-dance-of-death" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVII</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">The Dance of Death</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="dedication">
						<b>To Ernest Christophe</b>
					</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Proud, as a living person, of her height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her scarf and gloves and huge bouquet of roses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She shows such nonchalance and ease as might</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thin coquette excessive in her poses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who, at a ball, has seen a form so slim?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her sumptuous skirts extravagantly shower</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a dry foot that, exquisitely trim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her footwear pinches, dainty as a flower.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The frills that rub her collarbone, and feel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a lascivious rill against a rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The charms she is so anxious to conceal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Defend them, too, from ridicule and mock.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her eyes are formed of emptiness and shade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her skull, with flowers so deftly decked about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon her dainty vertebrae is swayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh what a charm when nullity tricks out!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Caricature,” some might opine, but wrongly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose hearts, too drunk with flesh that runs to waste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ignore the grace of what upholds so strongly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tall skeleton, you match my dearest taste!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come you to trouble with your strong grimace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The feast of life? Or has some old desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rowelled your living carcase from its place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sent you, credulous, to feed its fire?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With tunes of fiddles and the flames of candles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hope you to chase the nightmare far apart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or with a flood of orgies, feasts, and scandals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To quench the hell that’s lighted in your heart?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Exhaustless well of follies and of faults,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the old woe the alembic and the urn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around your trellised ribs, in new assaults,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see the insatiable serpent turn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I fear your coquetry’s not worth the strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The prize not worth the effort you prolong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could mortal hearts your railleries explain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The joys of horror only charm the strong.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The pits of your dark eyes dread fancies breathe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vertigo. Among the dancers prudent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hope not your sixteen pairs of smiling teeth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will ever find a contemplative student.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet who’s not squeezed a skeleton with passion?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ravened with his kisses on the meat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of charnels. What of costume, scent, or fashion?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man who feigns disgust, betrays conceit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O noseless geisha, unresisted gouge!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell these fastidious feigners, from your husk⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Proud fondling fools, in spite of talc and rouge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You smell of death. Anatomies of musk,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Withered Antinoüses, beaux of dunder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Corpses in varnish, Lovelaces of bone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dance of death, with universal thunder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is whirling you to places yet unknown!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From Seine to Ganges frolicking about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You see not, through a black hole in the ceiling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a great blunderbus, with funnelled snout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Angel’s trumpet, on the point of pealing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In every clime, Death studies your devices</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vain contortions, laughable Humanity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And oft, like you, perfumes herself with spices</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mixing her irony with your insanity!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="love-of-lies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Love of Lies</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Dear indolent, I love to watch you so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While on the ceiling break the tunes of dances,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hesitant, harmoniously slow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You turn the wandering boredom of your glances.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I watch the gas-flares colouring your drawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale forehead, which a morbid charm enhances,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where evening lamps illuminate a dawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In eyes as of a painting that entrances:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And then I say, “She’s fair and strangely fresh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom memory crowns with lofty towers above.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her heart is like a peach’s murdered flesh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or like her own, most ripe for learned love.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are you an autumn fruit of sovereign flavour?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A funeral urn awaiting tearful showers?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of far oases the faint, wafted savor?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dreamy pillow? or a sheaf of flowers?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have known deep, sad eyes that yet concealed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No secrets: caskets void of any gem:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Medallions where no sacred charm lay sealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep as the Skies, but vacuous like them!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is enough that your appearance flatters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rejoicing one who flies from truth or duty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your listless, cold stupidity⁠—what matters?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hail, mask or curtain, I adore your beauty!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="neighbouring-on-the-city" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIX</h4>
				<p>
					<span>Neighbouring on the city, I recall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our snow-white house, so full of peace and small:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The casts of Venus and Pomona too</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose limbs a tiny thicket hid from view.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun at eve, cascading fire and gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind the glass, his sheaf of rays unrolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, like an eye, inquisitively seemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To watch our long, hushed dinners as we dreamed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like candle-flames his glories, as they poured,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lit our serge curtains and our simple board.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="now-the-great-hearted-servant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">C</h4>
				<p>
					<span>Now the great-hearted servant, who aroused</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your jealousy, in humble earth is housed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let’s take, at least, some flowers for her relief.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dead, the piteous dead, know piercing grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when October blows, to prune old trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And whistles round the marble where they freeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How thankless then we living must appear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between warm sheets to sleep in comfort here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While, eaten by black dreams, they lie in woe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warm bedmates and their gossip to forego,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frostbitten skeletons, tunneled by vermin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bear the moulting drip of Winter’s ermine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ages, with no friends nor kindred there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tatters on their railings to repair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On evening when the hearthlogs hiss and flare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were I to see her calmly take her chair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or, in the calm and blue December gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Huddle within the corner of my room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gravely returning from her bed eternal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tend this grown-up child with the maternal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Care of old times⁠—how could I then reply</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the tears roll from each hollow eye?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mist-and-rain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Mist and Rain</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>O Autumns, Winters, Springs! Seasons of mire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soul-drowsing times! I love you. Take my praise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For shrouding thus my heart and brain entire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a vague tomb and winding-sheet of haze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through the long nights when the south-wester swings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rusty vanes that shriek upon the towers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul can fully stretch its raven wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More easily than in the warmer hours.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nothing is sweeter to funereal hearts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On whom the frost of ages has been laid⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wan seasons, when you queen it round these parts⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Than the eternal sight of your pale shade:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless on moonless midnights, pair by pair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lull, upon chance beds, our hearts’ despair.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="parisian-dream" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CII</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">Parisian Dream</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="dedication">
						<b>To Constantin Guys</b>
					</p>
				</header>
				<section id="parisian-dream-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Of the dread landscape that I saw,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where human eyes were never set,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I still am ravished by the awe</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That, vague and distant, haunts me yet.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Sleep is of miracles so fain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That I (O singular caprice!)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As being formless, could obtain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That vegetable life should cease.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A painter, in my genius free,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I there exulted in the fettle</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Derived from a monotony</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Composed of marble, lymph, and metal.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Babels of stairways and arcades,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Endless and topless to behold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With ponds, and jets, and steep cascades</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Filling receptacles of gold:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Ponderous cataracts there swung</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like crystal curtains, foaming shawls⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dazzling and glittering they hung</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suspended from the metal walls.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Not trees, but colonnades, enclosed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Motionless lakes, besides whose shelves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gigantic naiades reposed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like women, gazing at themselves.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Blue sheets of water interlay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unnumbered quays of green and rose,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That stretched a million leagues away</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To where the bounds of space impose.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>’Twas formed of unknown stones that blazed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And magic waves that intersect,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where icebergs floated, seeming dazed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all they mirror and reflect.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Impassive, cold, and taciturn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Great Ganges, through the sky’s vast prism,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Each poured the treasures of its urn</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into a diamond abysm.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Architect of my fairy scene,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I willed, by wondrous stratagems,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An ocean, tamed, to pass between</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A tunnel that was made of gems.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>There all things, even the colour black,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Seemed irridescently to play,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And liquid crystalised its lack</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of outline in a frozen ray.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>No star, no sun could be discerned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even low down, in that vast sky:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fire was personal that burned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To show these marvels to the eye.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Above these moving wonders sheer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There soared (that such a thing should be!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All for the eye, none for the ear!)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A silence of eternity.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="parisian-dream-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>My opening eyes, as red as coal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The horror of my lodging met.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I felt re-entering my soul</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The knife of cares and vain regret.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The clock with brutal accent played</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Funereal chimes. The time was noon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And heaven covered, with its shade,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The world, this fatuous balloon!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="morning-twilight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Morning Twilight</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Reveillé in the barracks and the camps.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind of morning blew upon the lamps.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the hour when evil dreams in swarms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On pillows twist brown, adolescent forms:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When like a bleeding eye that’s twitched with pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each lantern smudged the day with crimson stain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul, against its body’s weight of brawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay struggling, like the lanterns with the dawn:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a sad face whose tears the breezes dry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The air grew tremulous with things that fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And women tired of love, and men of writing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The chimneys, here and there, showed fires were lighting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Women of pleasure, slumber to be-slut,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay open-mouthed with livid eyelids shut.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dangling thin dugs, cold pauper-women blew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the embers and their fingers too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the hour when, what with cold and squalor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Women in labour aggravate their dolour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a sob, choked short with bloody froth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cock-crow tore the foggy air as cloth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like seas the mists round every building poured</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While agonising patients in the ward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In broken hiccoughs, rattled out their lives:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And worn-out rakes reeled homeward to their wives.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aurora, in a shift of rose and green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came shivering down the Seine’s deserted scene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Paris, as he rubbed his eyes, began</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sort his tools, laborious old man.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
