<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Le Vin</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-1-3" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Le Vin</h3>
			<article id="the-soul-of-wine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Soul of Wine</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>One night the wine was singing in the bottles:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Mankind, dear waif, I send to you, in spite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of prisoning glass and rosy wax that throttles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A song that's full of brotherhood and light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know what toil, and pain, and sweat you thole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the roasting sun on slopes of fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give me life and to beget my soul—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I will not be thankless to my sire,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because I feel a wondrous joy to dive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down, down the throat of some work-wearied slave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His warm chest is a tomb wherein I thrive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Better than in my subterranean cave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Say, can you hear that rousing catch resound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which hope within my beating heart sings high?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(With elbows on the table, sprawl around,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Contented hearts! my name to glorify.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I'll light the eyes of your delighted wife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your son I'll give both rosy health and muscle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And be to that frail athlete of this life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like oil that primes the wrestler for the tussle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In you I fall, ambrosia from above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sown by the hand of the eternal Power,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That poetry may blossom from our love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rear to God its rare and deathless flower!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-wine-of-the-rag-pickers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Wine of the Rag Pickers</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Often, in some red street-lamp's glare, whose flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind flaps, rattling at its glassy frame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the mired labyrinth of some old slum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where crawling multitudes ferment their scum—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With judge-like nods, a rag-picker comes reeling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bumping on walls, like poets, without feeling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scorning cops, now vassals of his state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Begins on glorious subjects to dilate,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Takes royal oaths, dictates his laws sublime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exalts the injured, and chastises crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, spreading his own daïs on the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is dazzled by his virtues, starred on high.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, these folk, badgered by domestic care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ground down by toil, decrepitude, despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Buckled beneath the foul load that each carries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The motley vomit of enormous Paris—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come home, vat-scented, trailing clouds of glory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Followed by veteran comrades, battle-hoary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose whiskers stream like banners as each marches.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—Flags, torches, flowers, and steep-triumphal arches</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rise up for them in magic hues and burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since through this dazzling orgy they return,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While drums and clarions daze the sun above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With glory to a nation drunk with love!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus Wine, through giddy human life, is rolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Pactolus, a stream of burning gold;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through man's own throat his exploits it will sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reign by gifts, as best befits a king.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To lull their laziness and drown their rancour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For storm-tossed wrecks a temporary anchor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God, in remorse, made sleep. Man added Wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Child of the Sun, immortal and divine!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-wine-of-the-murderer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Wine of the Murderer</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>My wife is dead. I'm free. From hence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll drink my fill, and that's the truth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each time I came back with no pence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her screechings drilled me like a tooth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now I'm as happy as a king…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Air pure, a cloudless sky above.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can remember such a thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The summer that we fell in love.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To quench the thirst that tears my throat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It would require the vats to flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough to set her tomb afloat—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that's no thimbleful, oh no!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I threw her in a well to drown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the walled rocks that round it stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To keep her there, and hold her down—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would forget her if I could!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pleading our early tender vows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which naught could break for evermore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To reconcile us, spouse to spouse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the same raptures as before—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I begged of her a rendezvous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One evening in a gloomy lane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She came—a crazy thing to do!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We all are more-or-less insane!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She still was quite attractive, though</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little tired and ill: and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still loved her more than ever: so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said, "Get out of life, and die!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>None understand me. Could a single</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Drunk" of the stupid sort design,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On morbid nights, by his own ingle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make a winding sheet of wine?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of dense invulnerable stuff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like engines built to shunt or shove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They've never known, through smooth or rough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The veritable power of love,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Its black enchantments, firey trials,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Processions of infernal pains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its burning tears, its poison phials,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its rattling bones, and jingling chains.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now I am free and all alone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-night I'll get dead-drunk, of course.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My head I'll pillow on a stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without repentance or remorse.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And there I'll sleep like any dog.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lumbering cart with massive wheels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Piled up with stones, or peat, or bog,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or hurtling wagon, as it reels</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>May crush my skull in, like a clod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or halve me at the crossing-level.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'd care as little as for God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Ten Commandments, or the Devil.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-wine-of-the-solitary-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Wine of the Solitary Man</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The love-glance of a courtesan that swims</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With undulating ray like that the moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sends to the waiting, tremulous lagoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where she's about to lave her languid limbs:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The last few florins in a gambler's fingers:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lustful kiss of slender Adeline:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A haunting tune that wheedles and malingers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein all human anguish seems to pine:—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All these aren't worth, O bottle kind and deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The penetrating balms that swell your paunch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pious poet's wounded heart to staunch.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You pour him hope, youth, life, and healing sleep—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pride, all Beggary's diadem and treasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By which our triumphs with the Gods' we measure.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-wine-of-lovers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Wine of Lovers</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, what a splendour fills all space!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without bit, spur, or rein to race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let's gallop on the steeds of wine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To heavens magic and divine!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now like two angels off the track,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom wild relentless fevers rack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On through the morning's crystal blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The swift mirages we'll pursue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now softly poised upon the wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a sagacious cyclone brings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In parallel delirium twinned,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>While side by side we surf the wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We'll never cease from such extremes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To seek the Eden of our dreams!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
