<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Épigraphes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-2-3" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Épigraphes</h3>
			<article id="verses-for-honoré-daumier's-portrait" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Verses for Honoré Daumier's Portrait</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The man whose image this presents,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In art more subtle than the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Teaches us sagely, as is best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To chuckle at our own expense.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In mockery he stands apart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His energy defies an equal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In painting Evil and its sequel—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which proves the veauty of his heart—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Melmoth or Mephostopheles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mis mirth has naught akin to theirs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flambeau of Alecto flares</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To singe them, while it makes us freeze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Their merriment they come to rue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So steeped in treachery and guile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While his frank radiating smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Declares him to be good and true.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-manet's-picture-lola-of-valencia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">On Manet's Picture "Lola of Valencia"</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Amongst the myriad flowers on beauty's stem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It's hard to choose. Such crowds there are of them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Lola burns with unexpected fuel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The radiance of a black and rosy jewel.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-delaroix's-picture-of-tasso-in-prison" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">On Delacroix's Picture of Tasso in Prison</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The poet, sick, and with his chest half bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tramples a manuscript in his dark stall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gazing with terror at the yawning stair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down which his spirit finally must fall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Intoxicating laughs which fill his prison</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invite him to the Strange and the Absurd.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With ugly shapes around him have arisen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both Doubt and Terror, multiform and blurred.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This genius cooped in an unhealthy hovel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These cries, grimaces, ghosts that squirm and grovel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whirling around him, mocking as they call,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This dreamer whom these horrors rouse with screams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are your emblem, Soul of misty dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round whom the Real erects its stifling wall.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
