<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Pièces Condamnées</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-2-1" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Pièces Condamnées</h3>
			<article id="lesbos" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Lesbos</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Mother of Grecian joys and Latin games,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lesbos, where kisses, languishing or gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As melons cool, or warm as solar flames,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adron alike the glorious night and day:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mother of Grecian joys and Latin games,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lesbos of kisses reckless as cascades</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hurl themselves to bottomless abysses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stormy and secret, myriad-swarming kisses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That cluck and sob and gurgle in the shades.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lesbos of kisses reckless as cascades!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lesbos where Phrynes each to each are plighted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where never yet unanswered went a sigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Paphos with a rival is requited,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Venus with a Sappho has to vie!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lesbos where Phrynes each to each are plighted,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lesbos, the land of warm and languid night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where gazing in their mirrors as they dress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cave-eyed girls, in barren, vain delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fruits of their nubility caress.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lesbos, the land of warm and languid night,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let Plato frown austerely all the while.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your pardon's from excess of kisses won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Queen of sweet empire, rare and noble isle—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from refinements which are never done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let Plato frown austerely all the while.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From martyrdom your pardon you beguile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inflicted without stint on hearts that soar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far, far away, drawn by some radiant smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seen vaguely on a strange celestial shore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From martyrdom your pardon you beguile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lesbos, what God to judge you would make bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or damn your brows so pale and sadly grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not having weighed upon the scales of gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The floods of tears you've poured into the wave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lesbos which God to judge you would make bold?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For us, what mean the statutes of the just?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pride of the isles, whose hearts sublimely swell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your faith as any other is august</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Love can laugh alike at Heaven and Hell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For us, what mean the statues of the just?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For Lesbos chose me of all men on earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sing the secrets of her virgin flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taught as a child the sacred rites of mirth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mysteries of sorrow which are ours.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Lesbos chose me of all men on earth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Since then I watch on the Leucadian height.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a lone sentry with a piercing view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who sees the vessels ere they heave in sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With forms that faintly tremble in the blue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since then I watch on the Leucadian height</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To find out if the sea's heart still is hardened</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from the sobs that drench the rock with spray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If it will bring back Sappho, who has pardoned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The corpse of the adored, who went away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To find out that the sea its heart has hardened;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of the male Sappho, lover, queen of singers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More beautiful than Venus by her woes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blue eye cannot match the black, where lingers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shady circle that her grief bestows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the male Sappho, lover, queen of singers—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fairer than Venus towering on the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pouring down serenity like water</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the blond radiance of her tresses curled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To daze the very Ocean with her daughter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fairer than Venus towering on the world—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of Sappho, whom her blasphemy requited</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The day she quit the rite and scorned the cult,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gave her lovely body to be slighted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By a rough brute, whose scorn was the result</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Sappho, whom the blasphemy requited.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And since that time has Lesbos lived lamenting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In spite of all the honours of mankind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lives upon the storm-howl unrelenting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of its bleak shores, the sport of wave and wind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For since that time has Lesbos lived lamenting.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="damned-women-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">Damned Women</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">Delphine and Hippolyta</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Over deep cushions, drenched with drowsy scents</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where fading lamplight shed its dying glow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hippolyta recalls and half-repents</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The kisses that first thawed her youthful snow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She sought, with tempest-troubled gaze, the skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of her first innocence, now far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As travellers who backward turn their eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To blue horizons passed at break of day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Within her haggard eyes the tears were bright.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her broken look, her dazed, voluptuous air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her vanquished arms like weapons shed in flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enhanced her fragile beauty with despair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Stretched at her feel Delphine contented lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And watched with burning eyeballs from beneath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a fierce tigress who, to guard her prey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has set a mark upon it with her teeth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Strong beauty there to fragile beauty kneeling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Superb, she seemed to sniff the heady wine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of triumph: and stretched out to her, appealing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the reward of raptures half-divine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She sought within her victim's pallid eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dumb hymns that pleasure sings without a choir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gratitude that, like a long-drawn sigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swells from the eyelid, swooning with fire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Hippolyta, dear heart, have you no trust?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you not know the folly that exposes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the fierce pillage of the brawling gust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sacred holocaust of early roses?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My kisses are as light as fairy midges</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That on calm evenings skim the crystal lake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those of your man would plough such ruts and ridges</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As lumbering carts or tearing coulters make.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They'll tramp across you, like a ruthless team</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of buffaloes or horses, yoked in lust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear sister, turn your face to me, my dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul, my all, my twin, to whom I trust!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Turn me your eyes of deepest, starry blue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For one of those deep glances that you send,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'd lift the veil of darkest joys for you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rock you in a dream that has no end."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But then Hippolyta raised up her head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"No blame nor base ingratitude I feel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, as it were, a kind of nauseous dread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After some terrible, nocturnal meal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I feel a swooping terror that explodes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In legions of black ghosts towards me speeding</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who crowd me on to swiftly moving roads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, sliced by sheer horizons, end up bleeding.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Have we done something monstrous that I tremble?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Explain, then, if you can; for when you say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Angel,' I cower. Yet I cannot dissemble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, when you seak, my lips are drawn your way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, do not fix me with a stare so steady</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You whom I love till death in still submission,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, even though you, like an ambush ready,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are the beginning of my own perdition."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Delphine stamped and shook her tragic mane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, like a priestess, foaming and fierce, and fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spoke in a lordly and prophetic strain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—"Who dares, in front of Love, to mention Hell?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Curbed forever be that useless dreamer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who first imagined, in his brutish mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sheer futility the fatuous schemer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Honour with Love could ever be combined.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He who in mystic union would enmesh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shadow with warmth, and daytime with the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will never warm his paralytic flesh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the red sun of amorous delight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Go, if you wish, and seek some boorish lover:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Offer your virgin heart to his crude hold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of remorse and horror you'll recover,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bring me your scarred breast to be consoled…</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Down here, a soul can only serve one master."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the girl, venting her temendous woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried out "I feel a huge pit of disaster</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yawning within: it is my heart, I know!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like a volcano burning, deep as death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's naught that groaning monster can assuage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor quench of thirst the Fury's burning breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who brands it with a torch to make it rage.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let our closed curtains isolate the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until exhaustion bring us sleep, while I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Annihilate myself upon your breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And find in you a tomb on which to die."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Go down, go down, poor victims, it is time;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The road to endless hell awaits your lusts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plunge to the bottom of the gulf, where crime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is flagellated by infernal gusts.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Swirling pell-mell, and with a tempest's roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mad shades, pursue your craving without measure:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your rages will be sated nevermore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your torture is begotten of your pleasure.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No sunbeam through your dungeon will come leaking:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only miasmic fevers, through each chink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will filter, like sick lanterns, redly streaking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And penetrate your bodies with their stink.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The harsh sterility of all you relish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will swell your thirst, and turn you both to hags.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind of your desire, with fury hellish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will flog your flapping carrion like wet flags.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Far from live folk, like werewolves howling high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gallop the boundless deserts you unroll.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fulfill your doom, disordered minds, and fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The infinite you carry in your soul.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lethe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">Lethe</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Rest on my heart, deaf, cruel soul, adored</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tigress, and monster with the lazy air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I long, in the black jungles of your hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To force each finger thrilling like a sword:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Within wide skirts, filled with your scent, to hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My bruised and battered forehead hour by hour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And breathe, like dampness from a withered flower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pleasant mildew of a love that died.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rather than live, I wish to sleep, alas!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lulled in a slumber soft and dark as death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In ruthless kisses lavishing my breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon your body smooth as burnished brass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To swallow up my sorrows in eclipse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing can match your couch's deep abysses;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stream of Lethe issues from your kisses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And powerful oblivion from your lips.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like a predestined victim I submit:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My doom, to me, henceforth, is my delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A willing martyr in my own despite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose fervour fans the faggots it has lit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To drown my rancour and to heal its smart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nepenthe and sweet hemlock, peace and rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll drink from the twin summits of a breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That never lodged the semblance of a heart.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-who-is-too-gay" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">To One Who Is Too Gay</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Your head, your gestures, and your air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are lovely as a landscape; smiles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rimple upon your face at whiles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like winds in the clear sky up there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The grumpy passers that you graze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are dazzled by the radiant health,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the illimitable wealth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your arms and shoulders seem to blaze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The glaring colours that, in showers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clash in your clothes with such commotion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In poets' minds suggest the notion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a mad ballet-dance of flowers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>These garish dresses illustrate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your spirit, striped with every fad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O madwoman, whom, quite as mad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love as madly as I hate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sometimes in gardens, seeking rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I have dragged my soul atonic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've felt the sun with gaze ironic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tearing the heart within my breast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The spring and verdure, dressed to stagger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Humiliate me with such power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I have punished, in a flower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The insolence of Nature's swagger.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And so, one night, I'd like to sneak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When night has tolled the hour of pleasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A craven thief, towards the treasure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which is your person, plump and sleek.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To punish your bombastic flesh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bruise your breast immune to pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To furrow down your flank a lane</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of gaping crimson, deep and fresh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And, most vertiginous delight!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into those lips, so freshly striking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And daily lovelier to my liking—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Infuse the venom of my sprite.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-jewels" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Jewels</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>My well-beloved was stripped. Knowing my whim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wore her tinkling gems, but naught besides:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And showed such pride as, while her luck betides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sultan's favoured slave may show to him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When it lets off its lively, crackling sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This blazing blend of metal crossed with stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gives me an ecstasy I've only known</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where league of sound and lustre can be found.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She let herself be loved: then, drowsy-eyed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smiled down from her high couch in languid ease.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My love was deep and gentle as the seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rose to her as to a cliff the tide.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My own approval of each dreamy pose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a tamed tiger, cunningly she sighted:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And candour, with lubricity united,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gave piquancy to every one she chose.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her limbs and hips, burnished with changing lustres,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before my eyes clairvoyant and serene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swanned themselves, undulating in their sheen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her breasts and belly, of my vine the clusters,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like evil angels rose, my fancy twitting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To kill the peace which over me she'd thrown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to disturb her from the crystal throne</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, calm and solitary, she was sitting.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So swerved her pelvis that, in one design,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Antiope's white rump it seemed to graft</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a boy's torso, merging fore and aft.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The talc on her brown tan seemed half-divine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The lamp resigned its dying flame. Within,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hearth alone lit up the darkened air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every time it sighed a crimson flare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It drowned in blood that amber-coloured skin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="metamorphoses-of-the-vampire" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Metamorphoses of the Vampire</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The crimson-fruited mouth that I desired—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While, like a snake on coals, she twinged and twired,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kneading her breasts against her creaking busk—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let fall those words impregnated with musk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—"My lips are humid: by my learned science,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All conscience, in my bed, becomes compliance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My breasts, triumphant, staunch all tears; for me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old men, like little children, laugh with glee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For those who see me naked, I replace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sun, moon, the sky, and all the stars in space.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am so skilled, dear sage, in arts of pleasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, when with man my deadly arms I measure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or to his teeth and kisses yield my bust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Timid yet lustful, fragile, yet robust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On sheets that swoon with passion—you might see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Impotent angels damn themselves for me."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When of my marrow she had sucked each bone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, languishing, I turned with loving moan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To kiss her in return, with overplus,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She seemed a swollen wineskin, full of pus.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shut my eyes with horror at the sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when I opened them, in the clear light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw, instead of the great swollen doll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, bloated with my lifeblood, used to loll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The debris of a skeleton, assembling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With shrill squawks of a weathercock, lie trembling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or sounds, with which the howling winds commingle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an old Inn-sign on a rusty tringle.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
