<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>La Mort</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="section-1-6" epub:type="part">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">La Mort</h3>
			<article id="the-death-of-lovers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXI</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Death of Lovers</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>We shall have beds round which light scents are wafted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Divans which are as deep and wide as tombs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strange flowers that under brighter skies were grafted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will scent our shelves with rare exotic blooms.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When, burning to the last their mortal ardour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our torch-like hearts their bannered flames unroll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their double light will kindle all the harder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within the deep, twinned mirror of our soul.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One evening made of mystic rose and blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will exchange a lightning-flash with you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a long sob that bids a last adieu.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Later, the Angel, opening the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faithful and happy, will at last renew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dulled mirrors, and the flames that leap no more.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-death-of-paupers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Death of Paupers</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>It’s Death comforts us, alas! and makes us live.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is the goal of life, it brings us hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, like a rich elixir, seems to give</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Courage to march along the darkening slope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Across the tempest, hail, and hoarfrost, look!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the black horizon, a faint gleam!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is the inn that’s written in the book</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where one can sleep, and eat, and sit and dream.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>An Angel, in magnetic hands it holds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleep and the gift of sweet ecstatic dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And makes a bed for poor and naked souls.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is God’s glory and the mystic grange:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poor man’s purse and fatherland it seems,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And door that opens Heavens vast and strange.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-death-of-artists" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIII</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The Death of Artists</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>How often must I shake my bells, and kiss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your brow, sad Travesty? How many a dart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My quiver, shoot at Nature’s mystic heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before I hit the target that I miss?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We’ll still consume our souls in subtle schemes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Demolishing tough harness, long before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We see the giant Creature of our dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom all the world is weeping to adore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some never knew their Idol, though they prayed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And these doomed sculptors, with an insult branded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hammer your brows and bosom, heavy-handed,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the one hope, O Capitol of shade!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Death like some new sun should rise and give</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warmth to their wasted flowers, and make them live.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-end-of-the-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIV</h4>
					<h5 epub:type="title">The End of the Day</h5>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Under the wan, dejected skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Impudent, raucous, full of treason,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This life runs dancing without reason.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Voluptuous night begins to rise,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Appeasing even those who fast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ravenous hunger making tame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hiding all things, even shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until the Poet says, “At last</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My spirit, like my weary spine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can do with slumber, that is certain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sad dreams invade this heart of mine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’m off to lie down on my back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And roll myself into your curtain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Refreshing shadows, dense and black!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dream-of-a-curious-person" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXV</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">Dream of a Curious Person</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="dedication">
						<b>To <abbr class="name">F. N.</abbr></b>
					</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Have you known such a savoury grief as I?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do people say “Strange fellow!”, whom you meet?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—My amorous soul, when I was due to die,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Felt longing mixed with horror; pain seemed sweet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Anguish and ardent hope (no factious whim)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were mixed: and as the sands of life ran low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My torture grew delicious yet more grim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of this dear old world would not let go.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I seemed a child, so keen to see the Show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He feels a deadly hatred of the Curtain⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then I saw the hard, cold truth for certain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I felt that dreadful dawn around me grow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With no surprise or vestige of a thrill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The curtain rose⁠—and I stayed waiting still.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-voyage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXVI</h4>
						<h5 epub:type="title">The Voyage</h5>
					</hgroup>
					<p epub:type="dedication">
						<b>To Maxime Du Camp</b>
					</p>
				</header>
				<section id="the-voyage-1">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h5>
					<p>
						<span>For children crazed with postcards, prints, and stamps</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All space can scarce suffice their appetite.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How vast the world seems by the light of lamps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But in the eyes of memory how slight!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>One morning we set sail, with brains on fire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hearts swelled up with rancorous emotion.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Balancing, to the rhythm of its lyre,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our infinite upon the finite ocean.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Some wish to leave their venal native skies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some flee their birthplace, others change their ways,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Astrologers who’ve drowned in Beauty’s eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tyrannic Circe with the scent that slays.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Not to be changed to beasts, they have their fling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With space, and splendour, and the burning sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The suns that bronze them and the frosts that sting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Efface the mark of kisses by and by.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But the true travellers are those who go</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only to get away: hearts like balloons</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unballasted, with their own fate aglow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who know not why they fly with the monsoons:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Those whose desires are in the shape of clouds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And dream, as raw recruits of shot and shell,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of mighty raptures in strange, transient crowds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of which no human soul the name can tell.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-voyage-2">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Horror! We imitate the top and bowl</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In swerve and bias. Through our sleep it runs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’s Curiosity that makes us roll</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As the fierce Angel whips the whirling suns.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Singular game! where the goal changes places;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The winning-post is nowhere, yet all round;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where Man tires not of the mad hope he races</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thinking, some day, that respite will be found.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Our soul’s like a three-master, where one hears</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A voice that from the bridge would warn all hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Another from the foretop madly cheers</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Love, joy, and glory”⁠ ⁠… Hell! we’re on the sands!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The watchmen think each isle that heaves in view</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An Eldorado, shouting their belief.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Imagination riots in the crew</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who in the morning only find a reef.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The fool that dotes on far, chimeric lands⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Put him in irons, or feed him to the shark!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The drunken sailor’s visionary lands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Can only leave the bitter truth more stark.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>So some old vagabond, in mud who grovels,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dreams, nose in air, of Edens sweet to roam.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wherever smoky wicks illumine hovels</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He sees another Capua or Rome.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-voyage-3">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h5>
					<p>
						<span>Amazing travellers, what noble stories</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We read in the deep oceans of your gaze!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Show us your memory’s casket, and the glories</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Streaming from gems made out of stars and rays!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>We, too, would roam without a sail or steam,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to combat the boredom of our jail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Would stretch, like canvas on our souls, a dream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Framed in horizons, of the seas you sail.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>What have you seen?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-voyage-4">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h5>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">“We have seen stars and waves.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We have seen sands and shores and oceans too,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In spite of shocks and unexpected graves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We have been bored, at times, the same as you.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The solar glories on the violet ocean</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And those of spires that in the sunset rise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lit, in our hearts, a yearning, fierce emotion</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To plunge into those ever-luring skies.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The richest cities and the scenes most proud</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In nature, have no magic to enamour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like those which hazard traces in the cloud</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While wistful longing magnifies their glamour.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Enjoyment adds more fuel for desire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Old tree, to which all pleasure is manure;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As the bark hardens, so the boughs shoot higher,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And nearer to the sun would grow mature.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Tree, will you always flourish, more vivacious</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Than cypress?⁠—None the less, these views are yours:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We took some photographs for your voracious</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Album, who only care for distant shores.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>We have seen idols elephantine-snouted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thrones with living gems bestarred and pearled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And palaces whose riches would have routed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The dreams of all the bankers in the world.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>We have seen the wonder-striking robes and dresses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Women whose nails and teeth the betel stains</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And jugglers whom the rearing snake caresses.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-voyage-5">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h5>
					<p>
						<span>What then? What then?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-voyage-6">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h5>
					<p>
						<span class="i2">“O childish little brains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not to forget the greatest wonder there⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We’ve seen in every country, without searching,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From top to bottom of the fatal stair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Immortal sin ubiquitously lurching:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Woman, a vile slave, proud in her stupidity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Self-worshipping, without the least disgust:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Man, greedy, lustful, ruthless in cupidity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Slave to a slave, and sewer to her lust:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The torturer’s delight, the martyr’s sobs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The feasts where blood perfumes the giddy rout:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Power sapping its own tyrants: servile mobs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In amorous obeisance to the knout:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Some similar religions to our own,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All climbing skywards: Sanctity who treasures,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As in his downy couch some dainty drone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In horsehair, nails, and whips, his dearest pleasures.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Prating Humanity, with genius raving,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As mad today as ever from the first,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cries in fierce agony, its Maker braving,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>‘O God, my Lord and likeness, be thou cursed!’</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But those less dull, the lovers of Dementia,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fleeing the herd which fate has safe impounded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In opium seek for limitless adventure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>—That’s all the record of the globe we rounded.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-voyage-7">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h5>
					<p>
						<span>It’s bitter knowledge that one learns from travel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The world so small and drab, from day to day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The horror of our image will unravel,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A pool of dread in deserts of dismay.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Must we depart, or stay? Stay if you can.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Go if you must. One runs: another hides</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To baffle Time, that fatal foe to man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there are runners, whom no rest betides,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Like the Apostles or the Wandering Jew,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whom neither ship nor waggon can enable</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To cheat the retiary. But not a few</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have killed him without stirring from their cradle.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But when he sets his foot upon our nape</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We still can hope and cry “Leave all behind!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As in old times to China we’ll escape</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With eyes turned seawards, hair that fans the wind⁠—</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>We’ll sail once more upon the sea of Shades</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With heart like that of a young sailor beating.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the rich, sad voices of the Trades</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who cry “This Way! all you who would be eating</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The scented Lotus. Here it is they range</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The piles of magic fruit. O hungry friend,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come here and swoon away into the strange</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Trance of an afternoon that has no end.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In the familiar tones we sense the spectre.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our Pylades stretch arms across the seas,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“To salve your heart, now swim to your Electra”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She cries, of whom we used to kiss the knees.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-voyage-8">
					<h5 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h5>
					<p>
						<span>O Death, old Captain, it is time. Weigh anchor!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To sail beyond the doldrums of our days.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Though black as pitch the sea and sky, we hanker</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For space; you know our hearts are full of rays.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Pour us your poison to revive our soul!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It cheers the burning quest that we pursue,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Careless if Hell or Heaven be our goal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beyond the known world to seek out the New!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
